t affected by a
provision which—
(1) Authorizes the sale of
collateral securities in case the
instrument be not paid at maturity; or
(2) Authorizes a confession
of judgment if the instrument be
not paid at maturity; or
(3) Waives the benefit of any
law intended for the advantage
or protection of the obligor; or
(4) Gives the holder an election to require something to be
done in lieu of payment of
money.
But nothing in this section
shall validate any provision or
stipulation otherwise illegal.
Section 6.—The validity and
negotiable character of an instrument are not affected by the fact
that—
(1) It is not dated; or
(2) Does not specify the

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

ARTICLE I. - FORM AND
INTERPRETATION
Section 1. - Be it enacted, etc.,
An instrument to be negotiable
must conform to the following requirements:
(1) It must be in writing and
signed by the maker or drawer;
(2) Must contain an unconditional promise or order to pay
a sum certain in money;
(3) Must be payable on demand, or at a fixed or determinable future time;
(4) Must be payable to order
or to bearer; and,
(5) Where the instrument is
addressed to a drawee, he must
be named or otherwise indicated
therein with reasonable certainty.
Section 2. - The sum payable
is a sum certain within the meaning of this act, although it is to
be paid—
(1) With interest; or
(2) By stated installments; or
(3) By stated installments,
with a provision that upon default in payment of any installment or of interest the whole

shall become due; or
(4) With exchange, whether
at a fixed rate or at the current
rate; or
(5) With costs of collection
or an attorney’s fee, in case payment shall not be made at maturity.
Section 3.—An unqualified
order or promise to pay is
unconditional within the meaning of this act, though coupled
with—
(1) An indication of a particular fund out of which
reimbursement is to be made, or
a particular account to be debited with the amount; or
(2) A statement of the transaction which gives rise to the instrument.
But an order or promise to
pay out of a particular fund is not
unconditional.
Section 4.—An instrument is
payable at a determinable future
time, within the meaning of this
act, which is expressed to be
payable—
(1) At a fixed period after
date or sight; or
(2) On or before a fixed or
determinable future time specified therein; or
(3) On or at a fixed period
after the occurrence of a special
event, which is certain to happen,

85

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

86

value given, or that any value has
been given therefor; or
(3) Does not specify the
place where it is drawn or the
place where it is payable; or
(4) Bears a seal; or
(5) Designates a particular
kind of current money in which
payment is to be made.
But nothing in this section
shall alter or repeal any statute
requiring in certain cases the
nature of the consideration to be
stated in the instrument.
Section 7.—An instrument is
payable on demand:
(1) Where it is expressed to
be payable on demand, or at
sight, or on presentation; or
(2) In which no time for payment is expressed.
Where an instrument is issued, accepted, or indorsed
when overdue, it is, as regards
the person so issuing, accepting,
or indorsing it, payable on demand.
Section 8.—The instrument
is payable to order where it is
drawn payable to the order of a
specified person or to him or his
order. It may be drawn payable
to the order of—
(1) A payee who is not
maker, drawer, or drawee; or
(2) The drawer or maker; or
(3) The drawee; or
(4) Two or more payees
jointly; or
(5) One or some of several
payees; or
(6) The holder of an office for
the time being.
Where the instrument is payable to order the payee must be
named or otherwise indicated
therein with reasonable certainty.
Section 9.—The instrument is
payable to bearer—
(1) When it is expressed to
be so payable; or
(2) When it is payable to a
person named therein or bearer;
or
(3) When it is payable to the
order of a fictitious or non-exist-

ing person, and such fact was
known to the person making it
so payable; or
(4) When the name of the
payee does not purport to be the
name of any person; or
(5) When the only or last indorsement is an indorsement in
blank.
Section 10.—The instrument
need not follow the language of
this act, but any terms are sufficient which clearly indicate an intention to conform to the requirements hereof.
Section 11.—Where the instrument or an acceptance or any
indorsement thereon is dated,
such date is deemed prima facie
to be the true date of the making, drawing, acceptance, or
indorsement as the case may be.
Section 12.—The instrument
is not invalid for the reason only
that it is ante-dated or postdated, provided this is not done
for an illegal or fraudulent purpose. The person to whom an instrument so dated is delivered
acquires the title thereto as of
the date of delivery.
Section 13.—Where an instrument expressed to be payable at a fixed period after date
is issued undated, or where the
acceptance of an instrument payable at a fixed period after sight
is undated, any holder may insert therein the true date of issue or acceptance, and the instrument shall be payable accordingly. The insertion of a
wrong date does not avoid the
instrument in the hands of a subsequent holder in due course;
but as to him, the date so inserted is to be regarded as the
true date.
Section 14.—Where the instrument is wanting in any material particular, the person in
possession thereof has a prima
facie authority to complete it by
filling up the blanks therein. And
a signature on a blank paper
delivered by the person making
the signature in order that the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

paper may be converted into a
negotiable instrument operates
as a prima facie authority to fill
it up as such for any amount. In
order, however, that any such
instrument when completed may
be enforced against any person
who became a party thereto prior
to its completion, it must be filled
up strictly in accordance with the
authority given and within a reasonable time. But if any such instrument, after completion, is
negotiated to a holder in due
course, it is valid and effectual
for all purposes in his hands, and
he may enforce it as if it had been
filled up strictly in accordance
with the authority given and
within a reasonable time.
Section 15.—Where an incomplete instrument has not
been delivered it will not, if completed and negotiated, without
authority, be a valid contract in
the hands of any holder, as
against any person whose signature was placed thereon before
delivery.
Section 16.—Every contract
on a negotiable instrument is incomplete and revocable until
delivery of the instrument for the
purpose of giving effect thereto.
As between immediate parties,
and as regards a remote party
other than a holder in due
course, the delivery, in order to
be effectual, must be made either
by or under the authority of the
party making, drawing, accepting, or indorsing, as the case may
be; and in such case the delivery
may be shown to have been conditional, or for a special purpose
only, and not for the purpose of
transferring the property in the
instrument. But where the instrument is in the hands of a holder
in due course, a valid delivery
thereof by all parties prior to him
so as to make them liable to him
is conclusively presumed. And
where the instrument is no
longer in the possession of a
party whose signature appears
thereon, a valid and intentional

Section 19.—The signature
of any party may be made by a
duly authorized agent. No particular form of appointment is
necessary for this purpose; and
the authority of the agent may
be established as in other cases
of agency.
Section 20.—Where the instrument contains or a person
adds to his signature words indicating that he signs for or on
behalf of a principal, or in a representative capacity, he is not liable on the instrument if he was
duly authorized; but the mere
addition of words describing him
as an agent, or as filling a representative character, without disclosing his principal, does not
exempt him from personal liability.
Section 21.—A signature by
“procuration” operates as notice
that the agent has but a limited
authority to sign,, and the principal is bound only in case the
agent in so signing acted within
the actual limits of his authority.
Section 22.—The indorsement or assignment of the instrument by a corporation or by
an infant passes the property
therein, notwithstanding that
from want of capacity the corporation or infant may incur no liability thereon.
Section 23.—When a signature is forged or made without
the authority of the person
whose signature it purports to
be, it is wholly inoperative, and
no right to retain the instrument,
or to give a discharge therefor,
or to enforce payment thereof
against any party thereto, can be
acquired through or under such
signature, unless the party,
against whom it is sought to enforce such right, is precluded
from setting up the forgery or
want of authority.
ARTICLE II.—CONSIDERATION
Section 24.—Every negotiable instrument is deemed
prima facie to have been issued

www.suspicions.com

for a valuable consideration; and
every-person whose signature
appears thereon to have become
a party thereto for value.
Section 25.—Value is any
consideration sufficient to support a simple contract. An antecedent or pre-existing debt constitutes value; and is deemed
such whether the instrument is
payable on demand or at a future time.
Section 26.—Where value has
at any time been given for the
instrument, the holder is deemed
a holder for value in respect to
all parties who became such prior
to that time.
Section 27.—Where the
holder has a lien on the, instrument, arising either from contract or by implication of law, he
is deemed a holder for value to
the extent of his lien.
Section 28.—Absence or failure of consideration is matter of
defense as against any person
not a holder in due course; and
partial failure of consideration is
a defense pro tanto, whether the
failure is an ascertained and liquidated amount or otherwise.
Section 29.—An accommodation party is one who has signed
the instrument as maker, drawer,
acceptor, or indorser, without
receiving value therefor, and for
the purpose of lending his name
to some other person. Such a
person is liable on the instrument to a holder for value, notwithstanding such holder at the
time of taking the instrument
knew him to be only an accommodation party.
ARTICLE III.—NEGOTIATION
Section 30.—An instrument
is negotiated when it is transferred from one person to another in such manner as to constitute the transferee the holder
thereof. If payable to bearer it is
negotiated by delivery; if payable
to order it is negotiated by the
indorsement of the holder completed by delivery.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

delivery by him is presumed until the contrary is proved.
Section 17.—Where the language of the instrument is
ambiguous or there are omissions therein, the following rules
of construction apply:
(1) Where the sum payable is
expressed in words and also in
figures and there is a discrepancy between the two, the sum
denoted by the words is the sum
payable; but if the words are ambiguous or uncertain, reference
may be had to the figures to fix
the amount;
(2) Where the instrument
provides for the payment of interest, without specifying the
date from which interest is to
run, the interest runs from the
date of the instrument, and if the
instrument is undated, from the
issue thereof;
(3) Where the instrument is
not dated, it will be considered
to be dated as of the time it was
issued;
(4) Where there is a conflict
between the written and printed
provisions of the instrument, the
written provisions prevail;
(5) Where the instrument is
so ambiguous that there is doubt
whether it is a bill or note, the
holder may treat it as either at
his election;
(6) Where a signature is so
placed upon the instrument that
it is not clear in what capacity the
person making the same intended to sign, he is to be
deemed an indorser;
(7) Where an instrument containing the words, “I promise to
pay,” is signed by two or more
persons, they are deemed to be
jointly and severally liable thereon.
Section 18.—No person is liable on the instrument whose
signature does not appear
thereon, except as herein otherwise expressly provided. But one
who signs in a trade or assumed
name will be liable to the same
extent as if he had signed in his
own name.

87

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

88

Section 31.—The indorsement must be written on the
instrument itself or upon a paper attached thereto. The signature of
the indorser, without additional words, is a sufficient
indorsement.
Section 32.—The indorsement must be an indorsement of
the entire instrument. An indorsement, which purports to
transfer to the indorsee a part
only of the amount payable, or
which purports to transfer the
instrument to two or more
indorsees severally, does not
operate as a negotiation of the
instrument. But where the instrument has been paid in part, it
may be indorsed as to the residue.
Section 33.—An indorsement
may be either special or in blank;
and it may also be either restrictive or qualified, or conditional.
Section 34.—A special indorsement specifies the person
to whom, or to whose order, the
instrument is to be payable; and
the indorsement of such indorsee is necessary to the further
negotiation of the instrument.
An indorsement in blank specifies no indorsee, and an instrument so indorsed is payable to
bearer, and may be negotiated
by delivery.
Section 35.—The holder may
convert a blank indorsement into
a special indorsement by writing
over the signature of the indorser in blank any contract consistent with the character of the
indorsement.
Section 36.—An indorsement
is restrictive, which either—
(1) Prohibits the further negotiation of the instrument; or
(2) Constitutes the indorsee
the agent of the indorser; or
(3) Vests the title in the indorsee in trust for or to the use
of some other person.
But the mere absence of
words implying power to negotiate does not make an indorse-

ment restrictive.
Section 37.—A restrictive indorsement confers upon the indorsee the right—
(1) To receive payment of
the instrument;
(2) To bring any action
thereon that the indorser could
bring;
(3) To transfer his rights as
such indorsee, where the form of
the indorsement authorizes him
to do so.
But all subsequent indorsees
acquire only the title of the first
indorsee under the restrictive
indorsement.
Section 38.—A qualified indorsement constitutes the indorser a mere assignor of the
title to the instrument. It may be
made by adding to the indorser’s
signature the words “without recourse,” or any words of similar
import. Such an indorsement
does not impair the negotiable
character of the instrument.
Section 39.—Where an indorsement is conditional, a party
required to pay the instrument
may disregard the condition, and
make payment to the indorsee or
his transferee, whether the condition has been fulfilled or not.
But any person to whom an instrument so indorsed is negotiated, will hold the same, or the
proceeds thereof, subject to the
rights of the person indorsing
conditionally.
Section 40.—Where an instrument, payable to bearer, is
indorsed specially, it may nevertheless be further negotiated by
delivery; but the person indorsing specially is liable as indorser
to only such holders as make title
through his indorsement.
Section 41.—Where an instrument is payable to the order
of two or more payees or
indorsees who are not partners,
all must indorse, unless the one
indorsing has authority to indorse for the others.
Section 42.—Where an instrument is drawn or indorsed to

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

a person as “Cashier” or other fiscal officer of a bank or corporation, it is deemed prima facie to
be payable to the bank or corporation of which he is such officer, and may be negotiated by
either the indorsement of the
bank or corporation, or the
indorsement of the officer.
Section 43.—Where the name
of a payee or indorsee is wrongly
designated or misspelled, he
may indorse the instrument as
therein described, adding, if he
think fit, his proper signature.
Section 44.—Where any person is under obligation to indorse in a representative capacity, he may indorse in such terms
as to negative personal liability.
Section 45.—Except where
an indorsement bears date after
the maturity of the instrument,
every negotiation is deemed
prima facie to have been effected
before the instrument was overdue.
Section 46.—Except where
the contrary appear; every
indorsement is presumed prima
facie to have been made at the
place where the instrument is
dated.
Section 47.—An instrument
negotiable in its origin continues
to be negotiable until it has been
restrictively indorsed or discharged by payment or otherwise.
Section 48.—The holder may
at any time strike out any indorsement which is not necessary to his title. The indorser
whose indorsement is struck out,
and all indorsers subsequent to
him, are thereby relieved from
liability on the instrument.
Section 49.—Where the
holder of an instrument payable
to his order transfers it for value
without indorsing it, the transfer vests in the transferee such
title as the transferor had
therein, and the transferee acquires, in addition, the right to
have the indorsement of the
transferor. But for the purpose

of determining whether the
transferee is a holder in due
course, the negotiation takes effect as of the time when the indorsement is actually made.
Section 50.—Where an instrument is negotiated back to a
prior. party, such party may, subject to the provisions of this act,
reissue and further negotiate the
same. But he is not entitled to
enforce payment thereof against
any intervening party to whom
he was personally liable.

www.suspicions.com

prior to the acquisition of such
defective title.
ARTICLE V.
—LIABILITIES OF PARTIES
Section 60.—The maker of a
negotiable instrument by making
it engages that he will pay it according to its tenor, and admits
the existence of the payee and
his then capacity to indorse.
Section 61.—The drawer by
drawing the instrument admits
the existence of the payee and
his then capacity to indorse; and
engages that on due presentment the instrument will be accepted or paid, or both, according to its tenor, and that if it be
dishonored, and the necessary
proceedings on dishonor be duly
taken, he will pay the amount
thereof to the holder, or to any
subsequent indorser who may be
compelled to pay it. But the
drawer may insert in the instrument an express stipulation
negativing or limiting his own liability to the holder.
Section 62.—The acceptor by
accepting the instrument engages that he will pay it according to the tenor of his acceptance; and admits—
(1) The existence of the
drawer, the genuineness of his
signature, and his capacity and
authority to draw the instrument;
and
(2) The existence of the
payee and his then capacity to
indorse.
Section 63.—A person placing his signature upon an instrument otherwise than as maker,
drawer or acceptor, is deemed to
be an indorser, unless he clearly
indicates by appropriate words
his intention to be bound in
some other capacity.
Section 64.—Where a person,
not otherwise a party to an instrument, places thereon his signature in blank before delivery,
he is liable as indorser, in accordance with the following rules:
(1) If the instrument is pay-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

ARTICLE IV.
—RIGHTS OF THE HOLDER
Section 51.—The holder of a
negotiable instrument may sue
thereon in his own name; and
payment to him in due course
discharges the instrument.
Section 52.—A holder in due
course is a holder who has taken
the instrument under the following conditions:
(1) That it is complete and
regular upon its face;
(2) That he became the
holder of it before it was overdue, and without notice that it
had been previously dishonored,
if such was the fact;
(3) That he took it in good
faith and for value;
(4) That at the time it was
negotiated to him he had no notice of any infirmity in the instrument or defect in the title of the
person negotiating it.
Section 53.—Where an instrument payable on demand is
negotiated an unreasonable
length of time after its issue, the
holder is not deemed a holder in
due course.
Section 54.—Where the
transferee receives notice of any
infirmity in the instrument or
defect in the title of the person
negotiating the same before he
has paid the full amount agreed
to be paid therefor, he will be
deemed a holder in due course
only to the extent of the amount
theretofore paid by him.
Section 55.—The title of a

person who negotiates an instrument is defective within the
meaning of this act when he obtained the instrument, or any signature thereto, by fraud, duress,
or force and fear, or other unlawful means, or for an illegal consideration, or when he negotiates
it in breach of faith, or under
such circumstances as amount to
a fraud.
Section 56.—To constitute
notice of an infirmity in the
instrument or defect in the title
of the person negotiating the
same, the person to whom it is
negotiated must have had actual
knowledge of the infirmity or
defect, or knowledge of such
facts that his action in taking the
instrument amounted to bad
faith.
Section 57.—A holder in due
course holds the instrument free
from any defect of title of prior
parties, and free from defenses
available to prior parties among
themselves, and may enforce
payment of the instrument for
the full amount thereto against
all parties liable thereon.
Section 58.—In the hands of
any holder other than a holder
in due course, a negotiable instrument is subject to the same
defenses as if it were non-negotiable. But a holder who derives
his title through a holder in due
course, and who is not himself a
party to any fraud or illegality affecting the instrument, has all
the rights of such former holder
in respect of all parties prior to
the latter.
Section 59.—Every holder is
deemed prima facie to be a
holder in due course; but when
it is shown that the title of any
person who has negotiated the
instrument was defective, the
burden is on the holder to prove
that he or some person under
whom he claims acquired the
title as holder in due course. But
the last-mentioned rule does not
apply in favor of a party who became bound on the instrument

89

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

90

able to the order of a third person, he is liable to the payee and
to all subsequent parties.
(2) If the instrument is payable to the order of the maker or
drawer, or is payable to bearer,
he is liable to all parties subsequent to the maker or drawer.
(3) If he signs for the accommodation of the payee, he is liable to all parties subsequent to
the payee.
Section 65.—Every person
negotiating an instrument by delivery or by a qualified indorsement, warrants—
(1) That the instrument is
genuine and in all respects what
it purports to be;
(2) That he has a good title
to it;
(3) That all prior parties had
capacity to contract;
(4) That he has no knowledge of any fact which would
impair the validity of the instrument or render it valueless.
But when the negotiation is
by delivery only, the warranty extends in favor of no holder other
than the immediate transferee.
The provisions of subdivision
three of this section do not apply to persons negotiating public or corporation securities,
other than bills and notes.
Section 66.—Every indorser
who indorses without qualification, warrants to all subsequent
holders in due course:
(1) The matters and things
mentioned in subdivisions one,
two, and three of the next preceding section; and
(2) That the instrument is at
the time of his indorsement valid
and subsisting.
And, in addition, he engages
that on due presentment, it shall
be accepted or paid, or both, as
the case may be, according to its
tenor, and that if it be dishonored, and the necessary proceedings on dishonor be duly taken,
he will pay the amount thereof
to the holder, or to any subsequent indorser who may be com-

pelled to pay it.
Section 67.—Where a person
places his indorsement on an instrument negotiable by delivery
he incurs all the liabilities of an
indorser.
Section 68.—As respects one
another, indorsers are liable
prima facie in the order in which
they indorse; but evidence is admissible to show that as between
or among themselves they have
agreed otherwise. Joint payees or
joint indorsees who indorse are
deemed to indorse jointly and
severally.
Section 69.—Where a broker
or other agent negotiates an instrument without indorsement,
he incurs all the liabilities prescribed by section sixty-five of
this act, unless he discloses the
name of his principal, and the
fact that he is acting only as
agent.
ARTICLE VI. —PRESENTMENT
FOR PAYMENT
Section 70.—Presentment for
payment is not necessary in order to charge the person primarily liable on the instrument; but
if the instrument is, by its terms,
payable at a special place, and
he is able and willing to pay it
there at maturity, such ability
and willingness are equivalent to
a tender of payment upon his
part. But except as herein otherwise provided, presentment for
payment is necessary in order to
charge the drawer and indorsers.
Section 71.—Where the instrument is not payable on demand, presentment must he
made on the day it falls due.
Where it is payable on demand,
presentment must be made
within a reasonable time after its
issue, except that in the case of
a bill of exchange, presentment
for payment will be sufficient if
made within a reasonable time
after the last negotiation thereof.
Section 72.—Presentment for
payment, to be sufficient, must
be made—

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

(1) By the holder, or by some
person authorized to receive payment on his behalf;
(2) At a reasonable hour on
a business day;
(3) At a proper place as
herein defined;
(4) To the person primarily
liable on the instrument, or if he
is absent or inaccessible, to any
person found at the place where
the presentment is made.
Section 73.—Presentment for
payment is made at the proper
place—
(1) Where a place of payment
is specified in the instrument and
it is there presented;
(2) Where no place of payment is specified, but the address of the person to make payment is given in the instrument
and it is there presented;
(3) Where no place of payment is specified and no address
is given and the instrument is
presented at the usual place of
business or residence of the person to make payment;
(4) In any other case if presented to the person to make
payment wherever he can be
found, or if presented at his last
known place of business or residence.
Section 74.—The instrument
must be exhibited to the person
from whom payment is demanded, and when it is paid
must be delivered up to the party
paying it.
Section 75.—Where the instrument is payable at a bank,
presentment for payment must
be made during banking hours,
unless the person to make payment has no funds there to meet
it at any time during the day, in
which case presentment at any
hour before the bank is closed
on that day is sufficient.
Section 76.—Where the person primarily liable on the instrument is dead, and no place of
payment is specified, presentment for payment must be made
to his personal representative if

(2) Presentment is excused
and the instrument is overdue
and unpaid.
Section 84.—Subject to the
provisions of this act, when the
instrument is dishonored by nonpayment, an immediate right of
recourse to all parties secondarily liable thereon accrues to the
holder.
Section 85.—Every negotiable instrument is payable at
the time fixed therein without
grace. When the day of maturity
falls upon Sunday, or a holiday,
the instrument is payable on the
next succeeding business day.
Instruments falling due on Saturday are to be presented for
payment on the next succeeding
business day, except that instruments payable on demand may,
at the option of the holder, be
presented for payment before
twelve o’clock noon on Saturday
when that entire day is not a holiday.
Section 86.—Where the instrument is payable at a fixed
period after date, after sight, or
after the happening of a specified event, the time of payment
is determined by excluding the
day from which the time is to
begin to run, and by including
the date of payment.
Section 87.—Where the instrument is made payable at a
bank it is equivalent to an order
to the bank to pay the same for
the account of the principal
debtor thereon.
Section 88.—Payment is
made in due course when it is
made at or after the maturity of
the instrument to the holder
thereof in good faith and without notice that his title is defective.
ARTICLE VII.
—NOTICE OF DISHONOR
Section 89.—Except as
herein otherwise provided, when
a negotiable instrument has
been dishonored by non-acceptance or non-payment, notice of

www.suspicions.com

dishonor must be given to the
drawer and to each indorser, and
any drawer or indorser to whom
such notice is not given is discharged.
Section 90—The notice may
be given by or on behalf of the
holder, or by or on behalf of any
party to the instrument who
might be compelled to pay it to
the holder, and who, upon taking it up would have a right to
reimbursement from the party to
whom the notice is given.
Section 91.—Notice of dishonor may be given by an agent
either in his own name or in the
name of any party entitled to give
notice, whether that party be his
principal or not.
Section 92.—Where notice is
given by or on behalf of the
holder, it enures for the benefit
of all subsequent holders and all
prior parties who have a right of
recourse against the party to
whom it is given.
Section 93.—Where notice is
given by or on behalf of a party
entitled to give notice, it enures
for the benefit of the holder and
all parties subsequent to the
party to whom notice is given.
Section 94.—Where the instrument has been dishonored in
the hands of an agent, he may
either himself give notice to the
parties liable thereon, or he may
give notice to his principal. If he
give notice to his principal, he
must do so within the same time
as if he were the holder, and the
principal upon the receipt of
such notice has himself the same
time for giving notice as if the
agent had been an independent
holder.
Section 95.—A written notice
need not be signed, and an insufficient written notice may be
supplemented and validated by
verbal communication. A misdescription of the instrument does
not vitiate the notice unless the
party to whom the notice is given
is in fact misled thereby.
Section 96.—The notice may

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

such there be, and if, with the
exercise of reasonable diligence,
he can be found.
Section 77.—Where the persons primarily liable on the
instrument are liable as partners,
and no place of payment is specified, presentment for payment
may be made to any one of them,
even though there has been a
dissolution of the firm.
Section 78.—Where there are
several persons, not partners,
primarily liable on the instrument, and no place of payment
is specified, presentment must
he made to them all.
Section 79.—Presentment for
payment is not required in order
to charge the drawer where he
has no right to expect or require
that the drawee or acceptor will
pay the instrument.
Section 80.—Presentment for
payment is not required in order
to charge an indorser where the
instrument was made or accepted for his accommodation
and he has no reason to expect
that the instrument will be paid
if presented.
Section 81.—Delay in making
presentment for payment is excused when the delay is caused
by circumstances beyond the
control of the holder, and not
imputable to his default, misconduct, or negligence. When the
cause of delay ceases to operate,
presentment must be made with
reasonable diligence.
Section 82—Presentment for
payment is dispensed with:
(1) Where after the exercise
of reasonable diligence presentment as required by this act cannot be made;
(2) Where the drawee is a fictitious person;
(3) By waiver of presentment, express or implied.
Section 83.—The instrument
is dishonored by non-payment
when,—
(1) It is duly presented for
payment and payment is refused
or cannot be obtained; or

91

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

92

be in writing or merely oral and
may be given in any terms which
sufficiently identify the instrument, and indicate that it has
been dishonored by non-acceptance or non-payment. It may in
all cases be given by delivering
it personally or through the
mails.
Section 97.—Notice of dishonor may be given either to the
party himself or to his agent in
that behalf.
Section 98.—When any party
is dead, and his death is known
to the party giving notice, the
notice must be given to a personal representative, if there be
one, and if with reasonable diligence he can be found. If there
be no personal representative,
notice may be sent to the last
residence or last place of business of the deceased.
Section 99.—Where the parties to be notified are partners,
notice to any one partner is notice to the firm even though there
has been a dissolution.
Section 100.—Notice to joint
parties who are not partners
must be given to each of them,
unless one of them has authority to receive such notice for the
others.
Section 101.—Where a party
has been adjudged a bankrupt
or an insolvent, or has made an
assignment for the benefit of
creditors, notice may be given
either to the party himself or to
his trustee or assignee.
Section 102.—Notice may be
given as soon as the instrument
is dishonored; and unless delay
is excused as hereinafter provided, must be given within the
times fixed by this act.
Section 103.—Where the person giving and the person to receive notice reside in the same
place, notice must be given
within the following times:
(1) If given at the place of
business of the person to receive
notice, it must be given before
the close of business hours on

the day following.
(2) If given at his residence,
it must be given before the usual
hours of rest on the day following.
(3) If sent by mail, it must he
deposited in the post-office in
time to reach him in usual course
on the day following.
Section 104.—Where the person giving and the person to receive notice reside in different
places, the notice must be given
within the following times:
(1) If sent by mail, it must be
deposited in the post-office in
time to go by mail the day following the day of dishonor, or if
there be no mail at a convenient
hour on that day, by the next
mail thereafter.
(2) If given otherwise than
through the post-office, then
within the time that notice would
have been received in due course
of mail, if it had been deposited
in the post-office within the time
specified in the last subdivision.
Section 105.—Where notice
of dishonor is duly addressed
and deposited in the post-office,
the sender is deemed to have
given due notice, notwithstanding any miscarriage in the mails.
Section 106.—Notice is
deemed to have been deposited
in the post-office when deposited
in any branch post-office or in
any letter box under the control
of the post-office department.
Section 107.—Where a party
receives notice of dishonor, he
has, after the receipt of such
notice, the same time for giving
notice to antecedent parties that
the holder has after the dishonor.
Section 108.—Where a party
has added an address to his
signature, notice of dishonor
must be sent to that address; but
if he has not given such address,
then the notice must be sent as
follows:
(1) Either to the post-office
nearest to his place of residence,
or to the post-office where he is

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

accustomed to receive his letters;
or
(2) If he live in one place, and
have his place of business in another, notice may be sent to either place; or
(3) If he is sojourning in another place, notice may be sent
to the place where he is so sojourning.
But where the notice is actually received by the party within
the time specified in this act, it
will be sufficient, though not sent
in accordance with the requirements of this section.
Section 109.—Notice of dishonor may be waived, either before the time of giving notice has
arrived, or after the omission to
give due notice, and the waiver
may be express or implied.
Section 110.—Where the
waiver is embodied in the instrument itself, it is binding upon all
parties; but where it is written
above the signature of an indorser, it binds him only.
Section 111.—A waiver of
protest, whether in the case of a
foreign bill of exchange or other
negotiable instrument, is
deemed to be a waiver not only
of a formal protest, but also of
presentment and notice of dishonor.
Section 112.—Notice of dishonor is dispensed with when,
after the exercise of reasonable
diligence, it cannot be given to
or does not reach the parties
sought to be charged.
Section 113.—Delay in giving
notice of dishonor is excused
when the delay is caused by circumstances beyond the control
of the holder, and not imputable
to his default, misconduct, or
negligence. When the cause of
delay ceases to operate, notice
must be given with reasonable
diligence.
Section 114.—Notice of dishonor is not required to be given
to the drawer in either of the following cases:
(1) Where the drawer and

ARTICLE VIII.—DISCHARGE OF
NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENTS
Section 119.—A negotiable
instrument is discharged:
(1) By payment in due course
by or on behalf of the principal

debtor;
(2) By payment in due course
by the party accommodated,
where the instrument is made or
accepted for accommodation;
(3) By the intentional cancellation thereof by the holder;
(4) By any other act which
will discharge a simple contract
for the payment of money;
(5) When the principal debtor
becomes the holder of the instrument at or after maturity in his
own right.
Section 120.—A person secondarily liable on the instrument
is discharged:
(1) By any act which discharges the instrument;
(2) By the intentional cancellation of his signature by the
holder;
(3) By the discharge of a prior
party;
(4) By a valid tender of payment made by a prior party;
(5) By a release of the principal debtor, unless the holder’s
right of recourse against the
party secondarily liable is expressly reserved;
(6) By any agreement binding
upon the holder to extend the
time of payment, or to postpone
the holder’s right to enforce the
instrument, unless made with
the assent of the party secondarily liable, or unless the right of
recourse against such party is
expressly reserved.
Section 121.—Where the instrument is paid by a party
secondarily liable thereon, it is
not discharged; but the party so
paying it is remitted to his former
rights as regards all prior parties,
and he may strike out his own
and
all
subsequent
indorsements, and again negotiate the instrument, except:
(1) Where it is payable to the
order of a third person, and has
been paid by the drawer; and
(2) Where it was made or accepted for accommodation, and
has been paid by the party accommodated.

www.suspicions.com

Section 122.—The holder
may expressly renounce his
rights against any party to the
instrument, before, at or after its
maturity. An absolute and unconditional renunciation of his rights
against the principal debtor
made at or after the maturity of
the instrument discharges the
instrument. But a renunciation
does not affect the rights of a
holder in due course without
notice. A renunciation must be
in writing, unless the instrument
is delivered up to the person primarily liable thereon.
Section 123.—A cancellation
made unintentionally, or under
a mistake or without the authority of the holder, is inoperative;
but where an instrument or any
signature thereon appears to
have been cancelled the burden
of proof lies on the party who
alleges that the cancellation was
made unintentionally, or under
a mistake or without authority.
Section 124.—Where a negotiable instrument is materially
altered without the assent of all
parties liable thereon, it is
avoided, except as against a
party who has himself made, authorized or assented to the alteration, and subsequent indorsers.
But when an instrument has
been materially altered and is in
the hands of a holder in due
course, not a party to the alteration, he may enforce payment
thereof according to its original
tenor.
Section 125.—Any alteration
which changes:
(1) The date;
(2) The sum payable, either
for principal or interest;
(3) The time or place of payment;
(4) The number or the relations of the parties;
(5) The medium or currency
in which payment is to be made;
Or which adds a place of payment where no place of payment
is specified, or any other change

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

drawee are the same person;
(2) When the drawee is a fictitious person or a person not
having capacity to contract;
(3) When the drawer is the
person to whom the instrument
is presented for payment;
(4) Where the drawer has no
right to expect or require that the
drawee or acceptor will honor the
instrument;
(5) Where the drawer has
countermanded payment.
Section 115.—Notice of dishonor is not required to he given
to an indorser in either of the
following cases:
(1) Where the drawee is a fictitious person or a person not
having capacity to contract, and
the indorser was aware of the
fact at the time he indorsed the
instrument;
(2) Where the indorser is the
person to whom the instrument
is presented for payment;
(3) Where the instrument
was made or accepted for his accommodation.
Section 116.—Where due
notice of dishonor by non-acceptance has been given, notice of
a subsequent dishonor by nonpayment is not necessary, unless
in the meantime the instrument
has been accepted.
Section 117.—An omission
to give notice of dishonor by nonacceptance does not prejudice
the rights of a holder in due
course subsequent to the omission.
Section 118.—Where any negotiable instrument has been
dishonored it may be protested
for non-acceptance or non-payment, as the case may be; but
protest is not required except in
the case of foreign bills of exchange.

93

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

94

or addition which alters the effect of the instrument in any respect, is a material alteration.

referee in case of need. It is in
the option of the holder to resort
to the referee in case of need or
not as he may see fit.

TITLE 11.
—BILLS OF EXCHANGE

ARTICLE II.—ACCEPTANCE
Section 132.—The acceptance of a bill is the signification
by the drawee of his assent to
the order of the drawer. The acceptance must be in writing and
signed by the drawee. It must not
express that the drawee will perform his promise by any other
means than the payment of
money.
Section 133.—The holder of
a bill presenting the same for
acceptance may require that the
acceptance be written on the bill,
and, if such request is refused,
may treat the bill as dishonored.
Section 134.—Where an acceptance is ‘written on a paper
other than the bill itself, it does
not bind the acceptor except in
favor of a person to whom it is
shown and who, on the faith
thereof, receives the bill for
value.
Section 135.—An unconditional promise in writing to accept a bill before it is drawn is
deemed an actual acceptance in
favor of every person who, upon
the faith thereof, receives the bill
for value.
Section 136.—The drawee is
allowed twenty-four hours after
presentment, in which to decide
whether or not he will accept the
bill; but the acceptance, if given,
dates as of the day of presentation.
Section 137.—Where a
drawee to whom a bill is delivered for acceptance destroys the
same, or refuses within twentyfour hours after such delivery, or
within such other period as the
holder may allow, to return the
bill accepted or non-accepted to
the holder he will be deemed to
have accepted the same.
Section 138.—A bill may be
accepted before it has been
signed by ‘the drawer, or while

ARTICLE I.—FORM AND
INTERPRETATION
Section 126.—A bill of exchange is an unconditional order
in writing addressed by one person to another, signed by the
person giving it, requiring the
person to whom it is addressed
to pay on demand or at a fixed
or determinable future time a
sum certain in money to order
or to bearer.
Section 127.—A bill of itself
does not operate as an assignment the funds in the hands of
the drawee available for the payment thereof, and the drawee is
not liable on the bill unless and
until he accepts the same.
Section 128.—A bill may be
addressed to two or more drawees jointly, whether they are partners or not; but not to two or
more drawees in the alternative
or in succession.
Section 129.—An inland bill
of exchange is a bill which is, or
on its face purports to be, both
drawn and payable within this
state. Any other bill is a foreign
bill. Unless the contrary appears
on the face of the bill, the holder
may treat it as an inland bill.
Section 130.—Where in a bill
drawer and drawee are the same
person, or where the drawee is a
fictitious person, or a person not
having capacity to contract, the
holder may treat the instrument,
at his option, either as a bill of
exchange or a promissory note.
Section 131.—The drawer of
a bill and any indorser may insert thereon the name of a person to whom the holder may resort in case of need, that is to
say, in case the bill is dishonored
by non-acceptance or non-payment. Such person is called the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

otherwise incomplete, or when it
is overdue, or after it has been
dishonored by a previous refusal
to accept, or by nonpayment. But
when a bill payable after sight is
dishonored by nonacceptance
and the drawee subsequently accepts it, the holder, in the absence of any different agreement, is entitled to have the bill
accepted as of the date of the
first presentment.
Section 139.—An acceptance
is either general or qualified. A
general acceptance assents without qualification to the order of
the drawer. A qualified acceptance in express terms varies the
effect of the bill as drawn.
Section 140.—An acceptance
to pay at a particular place is a
general acceptance, unless it
expressly states that the bill is
to be paid there only and not
elsewhere.
Section 141.—An acceptance
is qualified, which is:
(1) Conditional, that is to
say, which makes payment by the
acceptor dependent on the fulfillment of a condition therein
stated;
(2) Partial, that is to say, an
acceptance to pay part only of
the amount for which the bill is
drawn;
(3) Local, that is to say, an
acceptance to pay only at a particular place;
(4) Qualified as to time;
(5) The acceptance of some
one or more of the drawees, but
not of all.
Section 142.—The holder
may refuse to take a qualified acceptance, and if he does not obtain an unqualified acceptance,
he may treat the bill as dishonored by non-acceptance. Where
a qualified acceptance is taken,
the drawer and indorsers are discharged from liability on the bill,
unless they have expressly or
impliedly authorized the holder
to take a qualified acceptance, or
subsequently assent thereto.
When the drawer or an indorser

receives notice of a qualified acceptance, he must, within a reasonable time, express his dissent
to the holder, or he will be
deemed to have assented
thereto.
ARTICLE III.—PRESENTMENT
FOR ACCEPTANCE

www.suspicions.com

acceptance is excused, and the
bill is not accepted.
Section 150.—Where a bit! is
duly presented for acceptance
and is not accepted within the
prescribed time, the person presenting it must treat the bill as
dishonored by non-acceptance or
he loses the right of recourse
against the drawer and
indorsers.
Section 151.—When a bill is
dishonored by non-acceptance,
an immediate right of recourse
against the drawers and
indorsers accrues to the holder
and no presentment for payment
is necessary.
ARTICLE IV.—PROTEST
Section 152.—Where a foreign bill, appearing on its face
to be such is dishonored by nonacceptance, it must be duly protested for non-acceptance, and
where such a bill which has not
previously been dishonored by
non-acceptance is dishonored by
non-payment, it must be duly
protested for non-payment. If it
is not so protested, the drawer
and indorsers are discharged.
Where a bill does not appear on
its face to be a foreign bill, protest thereof in case of dishonor
is unnecessary.
Section 153.—The protest
must be annexed to the bill, or
must contain a copy thereof, and
must be under the hand and seal
of the notary making it, and must
specify:—
(1) The time and place of
presentment;
(2) The fact that presentment was made and the manner
thereof;
(3) The cause or reason for
protesting the bill;
(4) The demand made and
the answer given, if any, or the
fact that the drawee or acceptor
could not be found.
Section 154.—Protest may be
made by:—
(1) A notary public; or
(2) By any respectable resi-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 143.—Presentment
for acceptance must be made:
(1) Where the bill is payable
after sight, or in any other case,
where presentment for acceptance is necessary in order to fix
the maturity of the instrument;
or
(2) Where the bill expressly
stipulates that it shall be presented for acceptance; or
(3) Where the bill is drawn
payable elsewhere than at the
residence or place of business of
the drawee.
In no other case is presentment for acceptance necessary in
order to render any party to the
bill liable.
Section 144.—Except as
herein otherwise provided, the
holder of a bill which is required
by the next preceding section to
be presented for acceptance
must either present it for acceptance or negotiate it within a reasonable time. If he fails to do so,
the drawer and all indorsers are
discharged.
Section 145.—Presentment
for acceptance must be made by
or on behalf of the holder at a
reasonable hour, on a business
day and before the bill is overdue, to the drawee or some person authorized to accept or
refuse acceptance on his behalf;
and:
(1) Where a bill is addressed
to two or more drawees who are
not partners, presentment must
be made to them all, unless one
has authority to accept or refuse
acceptance for all, in which case
presentment may be made to
him only;
(2) Where the drawee is dead,

presentment may be made to his
personal representative;
(3) Where the drawee has
been adjudged a bankrupt or an
insolvent or has made an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
presentment may be made to
him or to his trustee or assignee.
Section 146.—A bill may be
presented for acceptance on any
day on which negotiable instruments may be presented for payment under the provisions of
sections seventy-two and eightyfive of this act. When Saturday is
not otherwise a holiday, presentment for acceptance may be
made before twelve o’clock,
noon, on that day.
Section 147.—Where the
holder of a bill drawn payable
elsewhere than at the place of
business or the residence of the
drawee has not time with the
exercise of reasonable diligence
to present the bill for acceptance
before presenting it for payment
on the day that it falls due, the
delay caused by presenting the
bill for acceptance before presenting it for payment is excused, and does not discharge
the drawers and indorsers.
Section 148.—Presentment
for acceptance is excused, and a
bill may be treated as dishonored
by non-acceptance, in either of
the following cases:
(1) Where the drawee is dead,
or has absconded, or is a fictitious
person or a person not having
capacity to contract by bill.
(2) Where, after the exercise
of reasonable diligence, presentment cannot be made.
(3) Where, although presentment has been irregular, acceptance has been refused on
some other ground.
Section 149.—A bill is dishonored by non-acceptance:
(1) When it is duly presented
for acceptance, and such an acceptance as is prescribed by this
act is refused or cannot be obtained; or
(2) When presentment for

95

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

96

dent of the place where the bill
is dishonored, in the presence of
two or more credible witnesses.
Section 155.—When a bill is
protested, such protest must be
made on the day of its dishonor,
unless delay is excused as herein
provided. When a bill has been
duly noted, the protest may be
subsequently extended as of the
date of the noting.
Section 156.—A bill must be
protested at the place where it
is dishonored, except that when
a bill drawn payable at the place
of business or residence of some
person other than the drawee,
has been dishonored by non-acceptance, it must be protested
for non-payment at the place
where it is expressed to be payable, and no further presentment
for payment to, or demand on,
the drawee is necessary.
Section 157.—A bill which
has been protested for non-acceptance may be subsequently
protested for non-payment.
Section 158.—Where the acceptor has been adjudged a
bankrupt or an insolvent or has
made an assignment for the benefit of creditors, before the bill
matures, the holder may cause
the bill to be protested for better security against the drawer
and indorsers.
Section 159.—Protest is dispensed with by any circumstances which would dispense
with notice of dishonor. Delay in
noting or protesting is excused
when delay is caused by circumstances beyond the control of the
holder and not imputable to his
default, misconduct, or negligence. When the cause of delay
ceases to operate, the bill must
be noted or protested with reasonable diligence.
Section 160.—When a bill is
lost or destroyed or is wrongly
detained from the person entitled to hold it, protest may be
made on a copy or written particulars thereof.

ARTICLE V.
—ACCEPTANCE FOR HONOR
Section 161.—Where a bill of
exchange has been protested for
dishonor by non-acceptance or
protested for better security and
is not overdue, any person not
being a party already liable
thereon, may, with the consent
of the holder, intervene and accept the: bill supra protest for
the honor of any party liable
thereon or for-the honor of the
person for whose account the bill
is drawn. The acceptance for
honor may be for part only of the
sum for which the bill is drawn;
and where there has been an acceptance for honor for one party,
there may be a further acceptance by a different person for
the honor of another party.
Section 162.—An acceptance
for honor supra protest must be
in writing and indicate that it is
an acceptance for honor, and
must be signed by the acceptor
for honor.
Section 163.—Where an acceptance for honor does not expressly state for whose honor it
is made, it is deemed to be an
acceptance for the honor of the
drawer.
Section 164.—The acceptor
for honor is liable to the holder
and to all parties to the bill subsequent to the party for whose
honor he has accepted.
Section 165.—The acceptor
for honor by such acceptance engages that he will on due presentment pay the bill according
to the terms of his acceptance,
provided it shall not have been
paid by the drawee, and provided
also, that it shall have been duly
presented for payment and protested for non-payment and notice of dishonor given him.
Section 166.—Where a bill
payable after sight is accepted
for honor, its maturity is calculated from the date of the noting for non-acceptance and not
from the date of the acceptance
for honor.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

Section 167.—Where a dishonored bill has been accepted
for honor supra protest or contains a reference in case of need,
it must be protested for non-payment before it is presented for
payment to the acceptor for
honor or referee in case of need.
Section 168.—Presentment
for payment to the acceptor for
honor must be made as follows:—
(1) If it is to be presented in
the place where the protest for
non-payment was made, it must
be presented not later than the
day following its maturity;
(2) If it is to be presented in
some other place than the place
where it was protested, then it
must be forwarded within the
time specified in section one
hundred and four.
Section 169. —The provisions of section eighty-one apply where there is delay in making presentment to the acceptor
for honor or referee in case of
need.
Section 170.—When the bill
is dishonored by the acceptor for
honor it must be protested for
non-payment by him.
ARTICLE VI.
—PAYMENT FOR HONOR
Section 171.—Where a bill
has been protested for non-payment, any person may intervene
and pay its supra protest for the
honor of any person liable
thereon or for the honor of the
person for whose account it was
drawn.
Section 172.—The payment
for honor supra protest in order
to operate as such and not as a
mere voluntary payment must be
attested by a notarial act of
honor which may be appended
to the protest or form an extension to it.
Section 173.—The notarial
act of honor must be founded on
a declaration made by the payer
for honor or by his agent in that
behalf declaring his intention to

pay the bill for honor and for
whose honor he pays.
Section 174.—Where two or
more persons offer to pay a bill
for the honor of different parties,
the person whose payment will
discharge most parties to the bill
is to be given the preference.
Section 175.—Where a bill
has been paid for honor, all parties subsequent to the party for
whose honor it is paid are discharged, but the payer for honor
is subrogated for, and succeeds
to, both the rights and duties of
the holder as regards the party
for whose honor he pays and all
parties liable to the latter.
Section 176.—Where the
holder of a bill refuses to receive
payment supra protest, he loses
his right of recourse against any
party who would have been discharged by such payment.
Section 177.—The payer for
honor, on paying to the holder
the amount of the bill and the
notarial expenses incidental to
its dishonor, is entitled to receive
both the bill itself and the protest.

TITLE III—PROMISSORY
NOTES AND CHECKS
ARTICLE - I
Section 184.—A negotiable
promissory note within the
meaning of this act is an unconditional promise in writing made
by one person to another signed
by the maker engaging to pay on
demand, or at a fixed or determinable future time, a sum certain in money to order or to
bearer. Where a note is drawn to
the maker’s own order, it is not
complete until indorsed by him.
Section 185.—A check is a
bill of exchange drawn on a bank
payable on demand. Except as
herein otherwise provided, the
provisions of this act applicable
to a bill of exchange payable on
demand apply to a check.
Section 186.—A check must be
presented for payment within a
reasonable time after its issue or
the drawer will be discharged from
liability thereon to the extent of
the loss caused by the delay.
Section 187.—Where a check
is certified by the bank on which
it is drawn, the certification is

www.suspicions.com

equivalent to an acceptance.
Section 188.—Where the
holder of a check procures it to
be accepted or certified the
drawer and all indorsers are discharged from liability thereon.
Section 189.—A check of itself does not operate as an
assignment of any part of the
funds to the credit of the drawer
with the bank, and the bank is
not liable to the holder, unless
and until it accepts or certifies
the check.
TITLE IV.
—GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I
Section 190.—This act may
be cited as the Uniform Negotiable Instruments Act.
Section 191.—In this act,
unless the context otherwise requires—
“Acceptance” means an acceptance completed by delivery
or notification.
“Action” includes counterclaim and set-off.
“Bank” includes any person
or association of persons carrying on the business of banking,
whether incorporated or not.
“Bearer” means the person in
possession of a bill or note which
is payable to bearer.
“Bill” means bill of exchange,
and “note” means negotiable
promissory note.
“Delivery” means transfer of
possession, actual or constructive, from one person to another.
“Holders” means the payee or
indorsee of a bill or note, who is
in possession of it, or the bearer
thereof.
“Indorsement” means an indorsement completed by delivery.
“Instrument” means negotiable instrument.
“Issue” means the first delivery of the instrument, complete
in form, to a person who takes it
as a holder.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

ARTICLE VII.—BILLS IN A SET
Section 178.—Where a bill is
drawn in a set, each part of the
set being numbered and containing a reference to the other parts,
the whole of the parts constitutes one bill.
Section 179.—Where two or
more parts of a set are negotiated to different holders in due
course, the holder whose title
first accrues is as between such
holders the true owner of the bill.
But nothing in this section affects the rights of a person who
in due course accepts or pays the
part first presented to him.
Section 180.—Where the
holder of a set indorses two or
more parts to different persons
he is liable on every such part,
and every indorser subsequent
to him is liable on the part he
has himself indorsed, as if such
parts were separate bills.

Section 181.—The acceptance may be written on any part
and it must be written on one
part only. If the drawee accepts
more than one part, and such
accepted parts are negotiated to
different holders in due course,
he is liable on every such part as
if it were a separate bill.
Section 182.—When the acceptor of a bill drawn in a set
pays it without requiring the part
bearing his acceptance to be delivered up to him, and that part
at maturity is outstanding in the
hands of a holder in due course,
he is liable to the holder thereon.
Section 183.—Except as
herein otherwise provided where
any one part of a bill drawn in a
set is discharged by payment or
otherwise the whole bill is discharged.

97

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

98

“Person” includes a body of
persons, whether incorporated
or not.
“Value” means valuable consideration.
“Written” includes printed,
and “writing” includes print.
Section 192.—The person
“primarily” liable on an instrument is the person who by the
terms of the instrument is absolutely required to pay the same.
All other parties are “secondarily”
liable.
Section 193.—In determining
what is a “reasonable time” or an
“unreasonable time,” regard is to
be had to the nature of the instrument, the usage of trade or
business (if any) with respect to
such instruments, and the facts
of the particular case.
Section 194.—Where the day,
or the last day, for doing any act
herein required or permitted to
be done falls on Sunday or on a
holiday, the act may be done on
the next succeeding secular or
business day.
Section 195.—The provisions
of this act do not apply to negotiable instruments made and
delivered prior to the taking effect hereof.
Section 196.—In any case not
provided for in this act the rules
of the law merchant shall govern.
Section 197.—Of the laws
enumerated in the schedules
hereto annexed that portion
specified in the last column is
repealed.
Section 198.—This chapter
shall take effect on
[Blank - to be filled in with
date upon which the Act took
effect in each state. The Uniform
Negotiable Instruments Act is
now in force in all forty-eight
states.]

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

Appendix: Principal Uniform Laws
Affecting Business Transactions

Uniform Partnership Act
PART I. PRELIMINARY
PROVISIONS
Section 1. Name of Act.—This
act may be cited as Uniform Partnership Act.

Section 3. Interpretation of
Knowledge and Notice.—
(1) A person has “knowledge”
of a fact within the meaning of
this act not only when he has
actual knowledge thereof, but
also when he has knowledge of
such other facts as in the circumstances shows bad faith.
(2) A person has “notice” of a
fact within the meaning of this
act when the person who claims
the benefit of the notice

Section 4. Rules of Construction.—(1) The rule that statutes
in derogation of the common law
are to be strictly construed shall
have no application to this act.
(2) The law of estoppel shall
apply under this act.
(3) The law of agency shall
apply under this act.
(4) This act shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect its general purpose to make
uniform the law of those states
which enact it.
(5) This act shall not be construed so as to impair the obligations of any contract existing
when the act goes into effect, nor
to affect any action or proceedings begun or right accrued before this act takes effect.
Section 5. Rules for Cases
Not Provided for in this Act—In
any case not provided for in this
act the rules of law and equity,
including the law merchant, shall
govern.

www.suspicions.com

PART II. NATURE
OF A PARTNERSHIP
Section 6. Partnership Defined.—(1) A partnership is an association of two or more persons
to carry on as co-owners a business for profit.
(2) But any association
formed under any other statute
of this state, or any statute
adopted by authority, other than
the authority of this state, is not
a partnership under this act, unless such association would have
been a partnership in this state
prior to the adoption of this act;
but this act shall apply to limited
partnerships except in so far as
the statutes relating to such partnerships are inconsistent herewith.
Section 7. Rules for Determining the Existence of a
Partnership.—In determining
whether a partnership exist;
these rules shall apply:
(1) Except as provided by
section 16 persons who are not
partners as to each other are
not partners as to third persons.
(2) Joint tenancy, tenancy in
common, tenancy by the entireties, joint property, common
property, or part ownership
does not of itself establish a
partnership, whether such co-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 2. Definition of
Terms.—In this Act, “Court” includes every court and judge
having jurisdiction in the case.
“Business” includes every
trade, occupation, or profession.
“Person” includes individuals,
partnerships, corporations, and
other associations.
“Bankrupt” includes bankrupt under the Federal Bankruptcy Act or insolvent under any
state insolvent act.
“Conveyance” includes every
assignment, lease, mortgage, or
encumbrance.
“Real property” includes land
and any interest or estate in land.

(a) States the fact to such
person, or
(b) Delivers through the
mail, or by other means of communication, a written statement
of the fact to such person or to a
proper person at his place of
business or residence.

99

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

owners do or do not share any
profits made by the use of the
property.
(3) The sharing of gross returns does not of itself establish
a partnership, whether or not the
person sharing them have a joint
or common right or interest in
any property from which the returns are derived.
(4) The receipt by a person
of a share of the profits of a business is prima facie evidence that
he is a partner in the business,
but no such inference shall be
drawn if such profits were received in payment:
(a) As a debt by installments
or otherwise,
(b) As wages of an employee
or rent to a landlord,
(c) As an annuity to a widow
or representative of a deceased
partner,
(d) As interest on a loan,
though the amount of payment
vary with the profits of the business,
(e) As the consideration for
the sale of the good-will of a business or other property by installments or otherwise.

100

Section 8. Partnership Property.—
(1) All property originally
brought into the partnership
stock or subsequently acquired
by purchase or otherwise, on account of the partnership is
partnership property.
(2) Unless the contrary intention appears, property acquired with partnership funds is
partnership property.
(3) Any estate in real property may be acquired in the partnership name. Title so acquired
can be conveyed only in the partnership name.
(4) A conveyance to a partnership in the partnership name,
though without words of inheritance, passes the entire estate
of the grantor unless a contrary
intent appears.

PART III. RELATIONS OF
PARTNERS TO PERSONS
DEALING WITH THE
PARTNERSHIP
Section Partner Agent of Partnership as to Partnership Business.—(1) Every partner is an
agent of the partnership for the
purpose of its business, and the
act of every partner, including
the execution in the partnership
name of any instrument, for apparently carrying on in the usual
way the business of the partnership of which he is a member
binds the partnership, unless the
partner so acting has in fact no
authority to act for the partnership in the particular matter, and
the person with whom he is dealing has knowledge of the fact
that he has no such authority.
(2) An act of a partner which
is not apparently for the carrying on of the business of the
partnership in the usual way
does not bind the partnership
unless authorized by the other
partners.
(3) Unless authorized by the
other partners or unless they
have abandoned the business,
one or more but less than all the
partners have no authority to:
(a) Assign the partnership
property in trust for creditors or
on the assignee’s promise to pay
the debts of the partnership.
(b) Dispose of the good-will
of the business.
(c) Do any other act which
would make it impossible to
carry on the ordinary business of
a partnership,
(d) Confess a judgment,
(e) Submit a partnership
claim or liability to arbitration or
reference.
(4) No act of a partner in contravention of a restriction on authority shall bind the partnership
to persons having knowledge of
the restriction.
Section 10. Conveyance of
Real Property of the Partnership.—

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

(1) Where title to real property is in the partnership name,
any partner may convey title to
such property by a conveyance
executed in the partnership
name; but the partnership may
recover such property unless the
partner’s act binds the partnership under the provisions of
paragraph (1) of section 9, or
unless such property has been
conveyed by the grantee or a
person claiming through such
grantee to a holder for value
without knowledge that the partner, in making the conveyance,
has exceeded his authority.
(2) Where title to real property is in the name of the partnership, a conveyance executed by
a partner, in his own name,
passes the equitable interest of
the partnership, provided the act
is one within the authority of the
partner under the provisions of
paragraph (1) of section 9.
(3) Where title to real property is in the name of one or more
but not all the partners, and the
record does not disclose the
right of the partnership, the partners in whose name the title
stands may convey title to such
property, but the partnership
may recover such property if the
partners’ act does not bind the
partnership under the provisions
of paragraph (1) of section 9,
unless the purchaser or his assignee, is a holder for value, without knowledge.
(4) Where the title to real
property is in the name of one
or more or all the partners, or in
a third person in trust for the
partnership, a conveyance executed by a partner in the
partnership name, or in his own
name, passes the equitable interest of the partnership, provided
the act is one within the authority of the partner under the provisions of paragraph (1) of section 9.
(5) Where the title to real
property is in the names of all
the partners a conveyance ex-

ecuted by all the partners passes
all their rights in such property.
Section 11. Partnership
Bound by Admission of Partner.—An admission or representation made by any partner concerning partnership affairs
within the scope of his authority
as conferred by this act is evidence against the partnership.
Section 12. Partnership
Charged with Knowledge of or
Notice to Partner.—Notice to any
partner of any matter relating to
partnership affairs, and the
knowledge of the partner acting
in the particular matter, acquired
while a partner or then present
to his mind, and the knowledge
of any other partner who reasonably could and should have communicated it to the acting partner, operate as notice to or
knowledge of the partnership,
except in the case of a fraud on
the partnership committed by or
with the consent of that partner.

Section 14. Partnership
Bound by Partner’s Breach of
Trust.—The partnership is
bound to make good the loss:
(a) Where one partner acting
within the scope of his apparent
authority receives money or
property of a third person and
misapplies it; and
(b) Where the partnership in
the course of its business receives money or property of a

Section 15. Nature of Partners Liability.—All partners are
liable
(a) Jointly and severally for
everything chargeable to the
partnership under sections 13
and 14.
(b) Jointly for all other debts
and obligations of the partnership; but any partner may enter
into a separate obligation to perform a partnership contract.
Section 16. Partner by Estoppel—
(1) When a person, by words
spoken or written or by conduct,
represents himself, or consents
to another representing him to
any one, as a partner in an existing partnership or with one or
more persons not actual partners, he is liable to any such person to whom such representation has been made, who has on
the faith of such representation,
given credit to the actual or apparent partnership, and if he has
made such representation or
consented to its being made in a
public manner he is liable to such
person, whether the representation has or has not been made
or communicated to such person
so giving credit by or with the
knowledge of the apparent partner making the representation or
consenting to its being made.
(a) When a partnership liability results, he is liable as though
he were an actual member of the
partnership.
(b) When no partnership liability results, he is liable jointly
with the other persons, if any, so
consenting to the contract or
representation as to incur liability, otherwise separately.
(2) When a person has been
thus represented to be a partner
in an existing partnership, or
with one or more persons not

www.suspicions.com

actual partners, he is an agent
of the persons consenting to
such representation to bind
them to the same extent and in
the same manner as though he
were a partner in fact, with respect to persons who rely upon
the representation. Where all the
members of the existing partnership consent to the representation, a partnership act or obligation results; but in all other cases
it is the joint act or obligation of
the person acting and the persons consenting to the representation.
Section 17. Liability of Incoming Partner.—A person admitted
as a partner into an existing partnership is liable for all the obligations of the partnership arising before his admission as
though he had been a partner
when such obligations were incurred, except that this liability
shall be satisfied only out of partnership property.
PART IV. RELATIONS OF
PARTNERS TO ONE ANOTHER
Section 18. Rules Determining Rights and Duties of Partners.—The rights and duties of
the partners in relation to the
partnership shall be determined,
subject to any agreement between them, by the following
rules:
(a) Each partner shall be repaid his contributions, whether
by way of capital or advances to
the partnership property and
share equally in the profits and
surplus remaining after all liabilities, including those to partners,
are satisfied; and must contribute towards the losses, whether
of capital or otherwise, sustained
by the partnership according to
his share in the profits.
(b) The partnership must indemnify every partner in respect
of payments made and personal
liabilities reasonably incurred by

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 13. Partnership
Bound by Partner’s Wrongful
Act.—Where, by any wrongful act
or omission of any partner acting in the ordinary course of the
business of the partnership, or
with the authority of his copartners, loss or injury is caused to
any person, not being a partner
in the partnership, or any penalty is incurred, the partnership
is liable therefor to the same
extent as the partner so acting
or omitting to act.

third person and the money or
property so received is misapplied by any partner while it is in
the custody of the partnership.

101

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

102

him in the ordinary and proper
conduct of its business, or for the
preservation of its business or
property.
(c) A partner, who in aid of
the partnership makes any payment or advance beyond the
amount of capital which he
agreed to contribute, shall be
paid interest from the date of the
payment or advance.
(d) A partner shall receive
interest on the capital contributed by him only from the
date when repayment should be
made.
(e) All partners have equal
rights in the management and
conduct of the partnership business.
(f) No partner is entitled to
remuneration for acting in the
partnership business, except
that a surviving partner is entitled to reasonable compensation for his services in winding
up the partnership affairs.
(g) No person can become a
member of a partnership without
the consent of all the partners.
(h) Any difference arising as
to ordinary matters connected
with the partnership business
may be decided by a majority of
the partners; but no act in contravention of any agreement between the partners may be done
rightfully without the consent of
all the partners.
Section 19. Partnership
Books.—The partnership books
shall be kept, subject to any
agreement between the partners,
at the principal place of business
of the partnership, and every
partner shall at all times have
access to and may inspect and
copy any of them.
Section 20. Duty of Partners
to Render Information.— Partners shall render on demand true
and full information of all things
affecting the partnership to any
partner or the legal representative of any deceased partner or
partner under legal disability.

Section 21. Partner Accountable as a Fiduciary.—
(1) Every partner must account to the partnership for any
benefit, and hold as trustee for
it any profits derived by him without the consent of the other partners from any transaction connected with the formation, conduct, or liquidation of the partnership or from any use by him
of its property.
(2) This section applies also
to the representatives of a deceased partner engaged in the
liquidation of the affairs of the
partnership as the personal representatives of the last surviving
partner.
Section 22. Right to an Account.—Any partner shall have
the right to a formal account as
to partnership affairs:
(a) If he is wrongfully excluded from the partnership
business or possession of its
property by his co-partners.
(b) If the right exists under
the terms of any agreement,
(c) As provided by section
2!,
(d) Whenever other circumstances render it just and reasonable.
Section 23. Continuation of
Partnership Beyond Fixed
Term.—
(1) When a partnership for a
fixed term or particular undertaking is continued after the termination of such term or particular undertaking without any express agreement, the rights and
duties of the partners remain the
same as they were at such termination, so far as is consistent
with a partnership at will.
(2) A continuation of the business by the partners or such of
them as habitually acted therein
during the term, without any
settlement or liquidation of the
partnership affairs, is prima fade
evidence of a continuation of the
partnership.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

PART V. PROPERTY RIGHTS
OF A PARTNER
Section 24. Extent of Property Rights of a Partner.—The
property rights of a partner are
(1) his rights in specific
partnership property,
(2) his interest in the partnership, and
(3) his right to participate in
the management.
Section 25. Nature of a
Partner’s Right in Specific Partnership Property.
(1) A partner is co-owner
with his partners of specific
partnership property holding as
a tenant in. partnership.
(2) The incidents of this tenancy are such that:
(a) A partner, subject to the
provisions of this act and to any
agreement between the partners,
has an equal right with his partners to possess specific partnership property for partnership
purposes; but he has no right to
possess such property for any
other purpose without the consent of his partners.
(b) A partner’s right in specific partnership property is not
assignable except in connection
with the assignment of the rights
of all the partners in the same
property.
(c) A partner’s right in specific partnership property is not
subject to attachment or execution, except on a claim against
the partnership. When partnership property is attached for a
partnership debt the partners, or
any of them, or the representatives of a deceased partner,
cannot claim any right under the
homestead or exemption laws.
(d) On the death of a partner his right in specific partnership property vests in the
surviving partner or partners, except where the deceased was the
last surviving partner, when his
right in such property vests in
his legal representative. Such

surviving partner or partners, or
the legal representative of the
last surviving partner, has no
right to possess the partnership
property for any but a partnership purpose.
(e) A partner’s right in specific partnership property is not
subject to dower, curtesy, or allowances to widows, heirs, or
next of kin.
Section 26. Nature of
Partner’s Interest in the Partnership.— A partner’s interest in the
partnership is his share of the
profits and surplus, and the
same is personal property.

Section 28. Partner’s Interest
Subject to Charging Order.—
(1) On due application to a
competent court by any judgment creditor of a partner, the
court which entered the judgment, order, or decree, or any
other court, may charge the interest of the debtor partner with

PART VI. DISSOLUTION
AND WINDING UP
Section 29. Dissolution Defined.—The dissolution of a partnership is the change in the relation of the partners caused by
any partner ceasing to be associated in the carrying on as distinguished from the winding up
of the business.
Section 30. Partnership Not
Terminated by Dissolution.—On
dissolution the partnership is not
terminated, but continues until
the winding up of partnership
affairs is completed.
Section 31. Causes of Dissolution.—Dissolution is caused:
(1) Without violation of the
agreement between the partners,
(a) By the termination of the

www.suspicions.com

definite term or particular undertaking specified in the agreement,
(b) By the express will of any
partner when no definite term or
particular undertaking is specified,
(c) By the express will of all
the partners who have not assigned their interests or suffered
them to be charged for
their separate debts, either
before or after the termination
of any specified term or particular undertaking,
(d) By the expulsion of any
partner from the business bona
fide in accordance with such a
power conferred by the agreement between the partners;
(2) In contravention of the
agreement between the partners,
where the circumstances do not
permit a dissolution under any
other provision of this section,
by the express will of any partner at any time;
(3) By any event which
makes it unlawful for the business of the partnership to be
carried on or for the members to
carry it on in partnership;
(4) By the death of any partner;
(5) By the bankruptcy of any
partner or the partnership;
(6) By decree of court under
section 32.
Section 32. Dissolution by
Decree of Court—(1) On application by or for a partner the court
shall .decree a dissolution whenever:
(a) A partner has been declared a lunatic in any judicial
proceeding or is shown to be of
unsound mind,
(b) A partner becomes in any
other way incapable of performing his part of the partnership contract,
(c) A partner has been guilty
of such conduct as tends to affect prejudicially the carrying on
of the business,
(d) A partner willfully or per-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 27. Assignment of
Partner’s Interest.—
(1) A conveyance by a partner of his interest in the partnership does not of itself dissolve
the partnership, nor, as against
the other partners in the absence
of agreement, entitle the assignee, during the continuance
of the partnership, to interfere
in the management or administration of the partnership business or affairs, or to require any
information or account of partnership transactions, or to inspect the partnership books; but
it merely entitles the assignee to
receive in accordance with his
contract the profits to which the
assigning partner would otherwise be entitled.
(2) In case of a dissolution of
the partnership, the assignee is
entitled to receive his assignor’s
interest and may require an account from the date only of the
last account agreed to by all the
partners.

payment of the unsatisfied
amount of such judgment debt
with interest thereon; and may
then or later appoint a receiver
of his share of the profits, and
of any other money due or to fall
due to him in respect of the partnership, and make all other orders, directions, accounts and
inquiries which the debtor partner might have made, or which
the circumstances of the case
may require.
(2) The interest charged may
be redeemed at any time before
foreclosure, or in case of a sale
being directed by the court may
be purchased without thereby
causing a dissolution:
(a) With separate property,
by any one or more of the partners, or
(b) With partnership property, by any one or more of the
partners with the consent of all
the partners whose interests are
not so charged or sold.
(3) Nothing in this act shall
be held to deprive a partner of
his right, if any, under the exemption laws, as regards his interest in the partnership.

103

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

sistently commits a breach of the
partnership agreement, or otherwise so conducts himself in
matters relating to the partnership business that it is not reasonably practicable to carry on
the business in partnership with
him,
(e) The business of the partnership can only be carried on
at a loss,
(f) Other circumstances render a dissolution equitable.
(2) On the application of the
purchaser of a partner’s interest
under sections 27 or 28:
(a) After the termination of
the specified term or particular
undertaking,
(b) At any time if the partnership was a partnership at will
when the interest was assigned
or when the charging order was
issued.

104

Section 33. General Effect of
Dissolution on Authority of Partner.—Except so far as may be
necessary to wind up partnership
affairs or to complete transactions begun but not then finished, dissolution terminates all
authority of any partner to act for
the partnership,
(1) With respect to the partners,
(a) When the dissolution is
not by the act, bankruptcy or
death of a partner; or
(b) When the dissolution is
by such act, bankruptcy or death
of a partner, in cases where section so requires.
(2) With respect to persons
not partners, as declared in section 35.
Section 34. Right of Partner
to Contribution from Co-partners
After Dissolution.—Where the
dissolution is caused by the act,
death, or bankruptcy of a partner, each partner is liable to his
co-partners for his share of any
liability created by any partner
acting for the partnership as if
the partnership had not been dis-

solved unless
(a) The dissolution being by
act of any partner, the partner
acting for the partnership had
knowledge of the dissolution, or
(b) The dissolution being by
the death or bankruptcy of a
partner, the partner acting for
the partnership had knowledge
or notice of the death or bankruptcy.
Section 35. Power of Partner
to Bind Partnership to Third Persons After Dissolution.—
(1) After dissolution a partner can bind the partnership except as provided in Paragraph (3)
(a) By any act appropriate for
winding up partnership affairs or
completing transactions unfinished at dissolution;
(b) By any transaction which
would bind the partnership if dissolution had not taken place,
provided the other party to the
transaction
I. Had extended credit to
the partnership prior to dissolution and had no knowledge
or notice of the dissolution; or
II. Though he had not so
extended credit, had nevertheless known of the partnership
prior to dissolution, and, having
no knowledge or notice of dissolution, the fact of dissolution had
not been advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in
the place (or in each place if more
than one) at which the partnership business was regularly carried on, and in the legal periodical, if any, designated by rule of
court in such place or places for
the publication of legal notices.
(2) The liability of a partner
under Paragraph (1b) shall be
satisfied out of partnership assets alone when such partner
had been prior to dissolution
(a) Unknown as a partner to
the person with whom the contract is made; and
(b) So far unknown and inactive in partnership affairs that
the business reputation of the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

partnership could not be said to
have been in any degree due to
his connection with it.
(3) The partnership is in no
case bound by any act of a partner after dissolution
(a) Where the partnership is
dissolved because it is unlawful
to carry on the business, unless
the act is appropriate for winding up partnership affairs; or
(b) Where the partner has
become bankrupt; or
(c) Where the partner has no
authority to wind up partnership
affairs; except by a transaction
with one who
I. Had extended credit to
the partnership prior to dissolution and had no knowledge
or notice of his want of authority; or
II. Had not extended credit
to the partnership prior to dissolution, and, having no knowledge or notice of his want of authority, the fact of his want of
authority has not been advertised in the manner provided for
advertising the fact of dissolution in Paragraph (1bII).
(4) Nothing in this section
shall affect the liability under
Section 16 of any person who
after dissolution represents himself or consents to another representing him as a partner in a
partnership engaged in carrying
on business.
Section 36. Effect of Dissolution on Partner’s Existing Liability.—
(1) The dissolution of the
partnership does not of itself discharge the existing liability of
any partner.
(2) A partner is discharged
from any existing liability upon
dissolution of the partnership by
an agreement to that effect between himself, the partnership
creditor and the person or partnership continuing the business;
and such agreement may be inferred from the course of dealing between the creditor having

knowledge of the dissolution and
the person or partnership continuing the business.
(3) Where a person agrees to
assume the existing obligations
of a dissolved partnership, the
partners whose obligations have
been assumed shall be discharged from any liability to any
creditor of the partnership who,
knowing of the agreement, consents to a material alteration in
the nature or time of payment of
such obligations.
(4) The individual property of
a deceased partner shall be liable
for all obligations of the partnership incurred while he was a partner but subject to the prior payment of his separate debts.
Section 37. Right to Wind
Up.—Unless otherwise agreed
the partners who have not
wrongfully dissolved the partnership or the legal representative
of the last surviving partner, not
bankrupt, has the right to wind
up the partnership affairs; provided, however, that any partner,
his legal representative or his assignee, upon cause shown, may
obtain winding up by the court.

www.suspicions.com

by the dissolution, ascertained
and paid to him in cash, or the
payment secured by bond approved by the court, and to be
released from all existing liabilities of the partnership; but in
ascertaining the value of the
partner’s interest the value of the
good-will of the business shall
not be considered.
Section 39. Rights Where
Partnership Is Dissolved for
Fraud or Misrepresentation.—
Where a partnership contract is
rescinded on the ground of the
fraud or misrepresentation of
one of the parties thereto, the
party entitled to rescind is, without prejudice to any other right,
entitled,
(a) To a lien on, or right of
retention of, the surplus of the
partnership property after satisfying the partnership liabilities to
third persons for any sum of
money paid by him for the purchase of an interest in the partnership and for any capital or
advances contributed by him;
and
(b) To stand, after all liabilities to third persons have been
satisfied, in the place of the creditors of the partnership for any
payments made by him in respect of the partnership liabilities; and
(c) To be indemnified by the
person guilty of the fraud or
making the representation
against all debts and liabilities
of the partnership.
Section 40. Rules for Distribution—In settling accounts between the partners after dissolution, the following rules shall
be observed, subject to any
agreement to the contrary:
(a) The assets of the partnership are:
I. The partnership property,
II. The contributions of the
partners necessary for the payment of all the liabilities speci-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 38. Rights of Partners
to Application of Partnership
Property.—
(1) When dissolution is
caused in any way, except in contravention of the partnership
agreement, each partner, as
against his co-partners and all
persons claiming through them
in respect of their interests in the
partnership, unless otherwise
agreed, may have the partnership property applied to discharge its liabilities, and the surplus applied to pay in cash the
net amount owing to the respective partners. But if dissolution
is caused by expulsion of a partner, bona fide under the partnership agreement and if the expelled partner is discharged from
all partnership liabilities, either
by payment or agreement under

section 36 (2), he shall receive in
cash only the net amount due
him from the partnership.
(2) When dissolution is
caused in contravention of the
partnership agreement the
rights of the partners shall be as
follows:
(a) Each partner who has not
caused dissolution wrongfully
shall have,
I. All the rights specified in
paragraph (1) of this section, and
II. The right, as against
each partner who has caused the
dissolution wrongfully, to damages for breach of the agreement.
(b) The partners who have
not caused the dissolution
wrongfully, if they all desire to
continue the business in the
same name, either by themselves
or jointly with others, may do so,
during the agreed term for the
partnership and for that purpose
may possess the partnership
property, provided they secure
the payment by bond approved
by the court, or
pay to any partner who has
caused the dissolution wrongfully, the value of his interest in
the partnership at the dissolution, less any damages recoverable under clause (2a11) of this
section, and in like manner indemnify him against all present
or future partnership liabilities.
(c) A partner who has
caused the dissolution wrongfully shall have:
I. If the business is not continued under the provisions of
paragraph (2b) all the rights of a
partner under paragraph (1), subject to clause (2a11), of this section,
II. If the business is continued under paragraph (2b) of this
section the right as against his
co-partners and all claiming
through them in respect of their
interests in the partnership, to
have the value of his interest in
the partnership, less any damages caused to his co-partners

105

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

106

fied in clause (b) of this paragraph.
(b) The liabilities of the partnership shall rank in order of
payment, as follows:
I. Those owing to creditors
other than partners,
II. Those owing to partners
other than for capital and profits,
III. Those owing to partners
m respect of capital,
IV. Those owing to partners
in respect of profits.
(c) The assets shall be applied in the order of their declaration in clause (a) of this paragraph to the satisfaction of the
liabilities.
(d) The partners shall contribute, as provided by section 18
(a) the amount necessary to satisfy the liabilities; but if any, but
not all, of the partners are insolvent, or, not being subject to
process, refuse to contribute, the
other partners shall contribute
their share of the liabilities, and,
in the relative proportions in
which they share the profits, the
additional amount necessary to
pay the liabilities.
(e) An assignee for the benefit of creditors or any person
appointed by the court shall have
the right to enforce the contributions specified in clause (d) of
this paragraph.
(f) Any partner or his legal
representative shall have the
right to enforce the contributions
specified in clause (d) of
this paragraph, to the extent
of the amount which he has paid
in excess of his share of the liability.
(g) The individual property
of a deceased partner shall be
liable for the contributions specified in clause (d) of this paragraph.
(h) When partnership property and the individual properties
of the partners are in the possession of a court for distribution, partnership creditors shall
have priority on partnership

property and separate creditors
on individual property, saving
the rights of lien or secured
creditors as heretofore.
(i) Where a partner has become bankrupt or his estate is
insolvent the claims against his
separate property shall rank in
the following order:
I. Those owing to separate
creditors,
II. Those owing to partnership creditors,
III. Those owing to partners
by way of contribution.
Section 41. Liability of Persons Continuing the Business in
Certain Cases.—
(1) When any new partner is
admitted into an existing partnership, or when any partner retires and assigns (or the representative of the deceased partner assigns) his rights in partnership property to two or more of
the partners, or to one or more
of the partners and one or more
third persons, if the business is
continued without liquidation of
the partnership affairs, creditors
of the first or dissolved partnership are also creditors of the
partnership so continuing the
business.
(2) When all but one partner
retire and assign (or the representative of a deceased partner
assigns) their rights in partnership property to the remaining
partner, who continues the business without liquidation of partnership affairs, either alone or
with others, creditors of the dissolved partnership are also creditors of the person or partnership
so continuing the business.
(3) When any partner retires
or dies and the business of the
dissolved partnership is continued as set forth in paragraphs
(1)
and (2) of this section, with
the consent of the retired partners or the representative of the
deceased partner, but without
any assignment of his right in

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

partnership property, rights of
creditors of the dissolved partnership and of the creditors of
the person or partnership continuing the business shall be as
if such assignment had been
made.
(4) When all the partners or
their representatives assign their
rights in partnership property to
one or more third persons who
promise to pay the debts and
who continue the business of the
dissolved partnership, creditors
of the dissolved partnership are
also creditors of the person or
partnership continuing the business.
(5) When any partner wrongfully causes a dissolution and the
remaining partners continue the
business under the provisions of
section 38 (2b), either alone or
with others, and without liquidation of the partnership affairs,
creditors of the dissolved partnership are also creditors of the
person or partnership continuing
the business.
(6) When a partner is expelled and the remaining partners continue the business either
alone or with others, without
liquidation of the partnership
affairs, creditors of the dissolved
partnership are also creditors of
the person or partnership continuing the business.
(7) The liability of a third
person becoming a partner in the
partnership continuing the business, under this section, to the
creditors of the dissolved partnership shall be satisfied out of
partnership property only.
(8) When the business of a
partnership after dissolution is
continued under any conditions
set forth in this section the creditors of the dissolved partnership,
as against the separate creditors
of the retiring or deceased partner or the representative of the
deceased partner, have a prior
right to any claim of the retired
partner or the representative of
the deceased partner against the

person or partnership continuing
the business, on account of the
retired or deceased partner’s interest in the dissolved partnership or on account of any consideration promised for such interest or for his right in partnership property.
(9) Nothing in this section
shall be held to modify any right
of creditors to set aside any assignment on the ground of fraud.
(10)
The use by the
person or partnership continuing
the business of the partnership
name, or the name of a deceased
partner as part thereof, shall not
of itself make the individual
property of the deceased partner
liable for any debts contracted by
such person or partnership.
Section 42. Rights of Retiring
or Estate of Deceased Partner
When the Business Is Continued.—When any partner retires
or dies, and the business is continued under any of the condi-

tions set forth in section 41 (1,
2, 3, 4, 6), or section 38 (2b),
without any settlement of accounts as between him or his
estate and the person or partnership continuing the business,
unless otherwise agreed, he or
his legal representative as
against such persons or partnership may have the value of his
interest at the date of dissolution ascertained, and shall receive as an ordinary creditor an
amount equal to the value of his
interest in the dissolved partnership with interest, or, at his option or at the option of his legal
representative, in lieu of interest,
the profits attributable to the use
of his right in the property of the
dissolved partnership; provided
that the creditors of the dissolved partnership as against the
separate creditors, or the representative of the retired or deceased partner, shall have priority on any claim arising under
this section, as provided by sec-

tion 41 (8) of this act.
Section 43. Accrual of Actions.—The right to an account
of his interest shall accrue to any
partner, or his legal representative, as against the winding up
partners or the surviving partners or the person or partnership
continuing the business, at the
date of dissolution in the absence of any agreement to the
contrary.
PART VII. MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS
Section 44. When Act Takes
Effect.—This act shall take effect
on the day of one thousand
nine hundred and
Section 45. Legislation Repealed.—All acts or parts of acts
inconsistent with this act are
hereby repealed.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

107

Appendix: Principal Uniform Laws
Affecting Business Transactions

Uniform Limited
Partnership Act

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 1. Limited Partnership Defined.—A limited partnership is a partnership formed by
two or more persons under the
provisions of Section a, having
as members one or more general
partners and one or more limited
partners. The limited partners as
such shall not be bound by the
obligations of the partnership.

108

Section 2. Formation.—
(1) Two or more persons desiring to form a limited partnership shall
(a) Sign and swear to a certificate, which shall state
I. The name of the partnership,
II. The character of the business,
III. The location of the principal place of business,
IV. The name and place of
residence of each member; general and limited partners being
respectively designated.
V. The term for which the
partnership is to exist,
VI. The amount of cash and
a description of and the agreed
value of the other property con-

tributed by each limited partner,
VII. The additional contributions, if any, agreed to be made
by each limited partner and the
times at which or events on the
happening of which they shall be
made,
VIII. The time, if agreed
upon, when the contribution of
each limited partner is to be returned.
IX. The share of the profits
or the other compensation by
way of income which each limited partner shall receive by reason of his contribution,
X. The right, if given, of a
limited partner to substitute an
assignee as contributor in his
place, and the terms and conditions of the substitution,
XI. The right, if given, of the
partners to admit additional limited partners,
XII. The right, if given, of one
or more of the limited partners
to priority over other limited
partners, as to contributions or
as to compensation by way of
income, and nature of such priority,
XIII.The right, if given, of the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

remaining general partner or
partners to continue the business on the death, retirement or
insanity of a general partner, and
XIV. The right, if given, of a
limited partner to demand and
receive property other than cash
in return for his contribution.
(b) File for record the certificate in the office of [here designate the proper office].
(2) A limited partnership is
formed if there has been substantial compliance in good faith
with the requirements of paragraph (1).
Section 3. Business Which
May Be Carried on.—A limited
partnership may carry on any
business which a partnership
without limited partners may
carry on, except [here designate
the business to be prohibited].
Section 4. Character of Limited Partner’s Contribution.—
The contributions of a limited
partner may be cash or other
property, but not services.
Section A Name Not to Con-

tain Surname of Limited Partner;
Exceptions.—
(1) The surname of a limited
partner shall not appear in the
partnership name, unless
(a) It is also the surname of
a general partner, or
(b) Prior to the time when
the limited partner became such
the business had been carried on
under a name in which the surname appeared.
(2) A limited partner whose
name appears in a partnership
name contrary to the provisions
of paragraph (1) is liable as a
general partner to partnership
creditors who extend credit to
the partnership without actual
knowledge that he is not a general partner.

Section 7. Limited Partner
Not Liable to Creditors.—A limited partner shall not become liable as a general partner unless,
in addition to the exercise of his
rights and powers as a limited
partner, he takes part in the control of the business.
Section 8. Admission of Additional Limited Partners.—After
the formation of a limited partnership, additional limited partners may be admitted upon filing an amendment to the original certificate in accordance with
the requirements of Section 25.

Section 10. Rights of a Limited Partner.—
(1) A limited partner shall
have the same rights as a general partner to
(a) Have the partnership
books kept at the principal place
of business of the partnership,
and at all times to inspect and
copy any of them,
(b) Have on demand true
and full information of all things
affecting the partnership, and a
formal account of partnership
affairs whenever circumstances
render it just and reasonable,
and
(c) Have dissolution and
winding up by decree of court.

www.suspicions.com

(2) A limited partner shall
have the right to receive a share
of the profits or other compensation by way of income, and to
the return of his contribution as
provided in Sections 15 and 16.
Section 11. Status of Person
Erroneously Believing Himself a
Limited Partner.—A person who
has contributed to the capital of
a business conducted by a person or partnership erroneously
believing that he has become a
limited partner in a limited partnership, is not, by reason of his
exercise of the rights of a limited partner, a general partner
with the person or in the partnership carrying on the business,
or bound by the obligations of
such person or partnership; provided that on ascertaining the
mistake he promptly renounces
his interest in the profits of the
business, or other compensation
by way of income.
Section 12. One Person Both
General and Limited Partner.—
(1) A person may be a general partner and a limited partner in the same partnership at
the same time.
(2) A person who is a general,
and also at the same time a limited partner, shall have all the
rights and powers and be subject to all the restrictions of a
general partner; except that, in
respect to his contribution, he
shall have the rights against the
other members which he would
have had if he were, not also a
general partner.
Section 13. Loans and Other
Business Transactions with Limited Partner.—
(1) A limited partner also may
loan money to and transact other
business with the partnership,
and, unless he is also a general
partner, receive on account of
resulting claims against the partnership, with general creditors,
a pro rata share of the assets. No

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 6. Liability for False
Statements in Certificate.—If the
certificate contains a false statement, one who suffers loss by
reliance on such statement may
hold liable any party to the certificate who knew the statement
to be false
(a) At the time he signed the
certificate, or
(b) Subsequently, but within
a sufficient time before the statement was relied upon to enable
him to cancel or amend the certificate, or to file a petition for
its cancellation or amendment as
provided in Section 25 (3).

Section Rights, Powers and
Liabilities of a General Partner.—
(1) A general partner shall
have all the rights and powers
and be subject to all the restrictions and liabilities of a partner
in a partnership without limited
partners, except that without the
written consent or ratification of
the specific act by all the limited
partners, a general partner or all
of the general partners have no
authority to
(a) Do any act in contravention of the certificate,
(b) Do any act which would
make it impossible to carry on
the ordinary business of the partnership,
(c) Confess a judgment
against the partnership,
(d) Possess partnership
property, or assign their rights
in specific partnership property,
for other than a partnership purpose,
(e) Admit a person as a general partner,
(f) Admit a person as a limited partner, unless the right so
to do is given in the certificate,
(g) Continue the business
with partnership property on the
death, retirement or insanity of
a general partner, unless the
right so to do is given in the certificate.

109

limited partner shall in respect
to any such claim
(a) Receive or hold as collateral security any partnership
property, or
(b) Receive from a general
partner or the partnership any
payment, conveyance, or release
from liability, if at the time the
assets of the partnership are not
sufficient to discharge partnership liabilities to persons not
claiming as general or limited
partners.
(2) The receiving of collateral security, or a payment, conveyance, or release in violation
of the provisions of paragraph (1)
is a fraud on the creditors of the
partnership.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 14.. Relation of Limited Partners Inter Se.—Where
there are several limited partners
the members may agree that one
or more of the limited partners
shall have a priority over other
limited partners as to the return
of their contributions, as to their
compensation by way of income,
or as to any other matter. If such
an agreement is made it shall be
stated in the certificate, and in
the absence of such a statement
all the limited partners shall
stand upon equal footing.

110

Section 15. Compensation of
Limited Partner.—A limited partner may receive from the partnership the share of the profits
or the compensation by way of
income stipulated for in the certificate; provided, that after such
payment is made, whether from
the property of the partnership
or that of a general partner, the
partnership assets are in excess
of all liabilities of the partnership
except liabilities to limited partners on account of their contributions and to general partners.
Section 16. Withdrawal or
Reduction of Limited Partner’s
Contribution.—

(1) A limited partner shall not
receive from a general partner or
out of partnership property any
part of his contribution until
(a) All liabilities of the partnership, except liabilities to general partners and to limited partners on account of their contributions, have been paid or there
remains property of the partnership sufficient to pay them,
(b) The consent of all members is had, unless the return of
the contribution may be rightfully demanded under the provisions of paragraph (2), and
(c) The certificate is cancelled or so amended as to set
forth the withdrawal or reduction.
(2) Subject to the provisions
of paragraph (1) a limited partner may rightfully demand the
return of his contribution
(a) On the dissolution of a
partnership, or
(b) When the date specified
in the certificate for its return has
arrived, or
(c) After he has given six
months’ notice in writing to all
other members, if no time is
specified in the certificate either
for the return of the contribution
or for the dissolution of the partnership.
(3) In the absence of any
statement in the certificate to the
contrary or the consent of all
members, a limited partner, irrespective of the nature of his
contribution, has only the right
to demand and receive cash in
return for his contribution.
(4) A limited partner may
have the partnership dissolved
and its affairs wound up when
(a) He rightfully but unsuccessfully demands the return of
his contribution, or
(b) The other liabilities of the
partnership have not been paid,
or the partnership property is insufficient for their payment as required by paragraph (10) and the
limited partner would otherwise
be entitled to the return of his

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

contribution.
Section 17. Liability of Limited Partner to Partnership.— (1)
A limited partner is liable to the
partnership
(a) For the difference between his contribution as actually made and that stated in the
certificate as having been made,
and
(b) For any unpaid contribution which he agreed in the certificate to make in the future at
the time and on the conditions
stated in the certificate.
(2) A limited partner holds
as trustee for the partnership
(a) Specific property stated
in the certificate as contributed
by him, but which was not contributed or which has been
wrongfully returned, and
(b) Money or other property
wrongfully paid or conveyed to
him on account of his contribution.
(3) The liabilities of a limited
partner as set forth in this section can be waived or compromised only by the consent of all
members; but a waiver or compromise shall not affect the right
of a creditor of a partnership,
who extended credit or whose
claim arose after the filing and
before a cancellation or amendment of the certificate, to enforce
such liabilities.
(4) When a contributor has
rightfully received the return in
whole or in part of the capital of
his contribution, he is nevertheless liable to the partnership
for any sum, not in excess of
such return with interest, necessary to discharge its liabilities to
all creditors who extended credit
or whose claims arose before
such return.
Section 18. Nature of Limited
Partner’s Interest in Partnership.—A limited partner’s interest in the partnership is personal
property.

Section 20. Effect of Retirement, Death or Insanity of a Genera! Partner. The retirement,
death or insanity of a general
partner dissolves the partnership, unless the business is
continued by the remaining general partners.

(a) Under a right so to do
stated in the certificate, or
(b) With the consent of all
members.
Section 21. Death of Limited
Partner.—
(1) On the death of a limited
partner his executor or administrator shall have all the rights of
a limited partner for the purpose
of settling his estate, and such
power as the deceased had to
constitute his assignee a substituted limited partner.
(2) The estate of a deceased
limited partner shall be liable for
all his liabilities as a limited partner.
Section 22. Rights of Creditors of Limited Partner.—
(1) On due application to a
court of competent jurisdiction
by any judgment creditor of a
limited partner, the court may
charge the interest of the indebted limited partner with payment of the unsatisfied amount
of the judgment debt; and may
appoint a receiver, and make all
other orders, directions, and inquiries which the circumstances
of the case may require.
(2) The interest may be redeemed with the separate property of any general partner, but
may not be redeemed with
partnership property.
(3) The remedies conferred
by paragraph (1) shall not be
deemed exclusive of others
which may exist.
(4) Nothing in this act shall
be held to deprive a limited partner of his statutory exemption.
Section 23. Distribution of
Assets.—
(1) In settling accounts after
dissolution the liabilities of the
partnership shall be entitled to
payment in the following order:
(a) Those to creditors, in the
order of priority as provided by
law, except those to limited partners on account of their contri-

www.suspicions.com

bution, and to general partners,
(b) Those to limited partners
in respect to their share of the
profits and other compensation
by way of income on their contributions,
(c) Those to limited partners
in respect to the capital of their
contributions,
(d) Those to general partners other than for capital and
profits,
(e) Those to general partners in respect to profits,
(f) Those to general partners in respect to capital.
(2) Subject to any statement
in the certificate or to subsequent agreement, limited partners share in the partnership
assets in respect to their claims
for capital, and in respect to their
claims for profits or for compensation by way of income on their
contributions respectively, in
proportion to the respective
amounts of such claims.
Section 24. When Certificate
Shall
Be
Cancelled
or
Amended.—
(1) The certificate shall be
cancelled when the partnership
is dissolved or all limited partners cease to be such.
(2) A certificate shall be
amended when
(a) There is a change in the
name of the partnership or in the
amount or character of the contribution of any limited partner,
(b) A person is substituted
as a limited partner,
(c) An additional limited
partner is admitted,
(d) A person is admitted as
a general partner,
(e) A general partner retires,
dies or becomes insane, and the
business is continued under Section 20.
(f) There is a change in the
character of the business of the
partnership,
(g) There is a false or erroneous statement in the certificate,

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 19. Assignment of
Limited Partner’s Interest.—
(1) A limited partner’s interest is assignable.
(2) A substituted limited partner is a person admitted to all
the rights of a limited partner
who has died or has assigned his
interest in a partnership.
(3) An assignee, who does
not become a substituted limited
partner, has no right to require
any information or account of the
partnership transactions or to
inspect the partnership books;
he is only entitled to receive the
share of the profits or other
compensation by way of income,
or the return of his contribution,
to which his assignor would otherwise be entitled.
(4) An assignee shall have
the right to become a substituted
limited partner if all the members
(except the assignor) consent
thereto or if the assignor, being
thereunto empowered by the certificate, gives the assignee that
right.
(5) An assignee becomes a
substituted limited partner when
the certificate is appropriately
amended in accordance with Section 25.
(6) The substituted limited
partner has all the rights and
powers, and is subject to all the
restrictions and liabilities of his
assignor, except those liabilities
of which he was ignorant at the
time he became a limited partner and which could not be ascertained from the certificate.
(7) The substitution of the
assignee as a limited partner
does not release the assignor
from liability to the partnership
under Sections 6 and 17.

111

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(h) There is a change in the
time as stated in the certificate
for the dissolution of the partnership or for the return of a contribution,
(i) A time is fixed for the dissolution of the partnership, or
the return of a contribution, no
time having been specified in the
certificate, or
(j) The members desire to
make a change in any other
statement in the certificate in
order that it shall accurately represent the agreement between
them.

112

Section 25. Requirements for
Amendment and for Cancellation
of Certificate.—
(1) The writing to amend a
certificate shall
(a) Conform to the requirements of Section 2 (1a) as far as
necessary to set forth clearly the
change in the certificate which it
is desired to make, and
(b) Be signed and sworn to
by all members, and an amendment substituting a limited partner or adding a limited or general partner shall be signed also
by the member to be substituted
or added, and when a limited
partner is to be substituted, the
amendment shall also be signed
by the assigning limited partner.
(2) The writing to cancel a
certificate shall be signed by all
members.
(3) A person desiring the
cancellation or amendment of a
certificate, if any person designated in paragraphs (1) and (2)
as a person who must execute
the writing refuses to do so, may
petition the [here designate the
proper court] to direct a cancellation or amendment thereof.
(4) If the court finds that the
petitioner has a right to have the
writing executed by a person
who refuses to do so, it shall order the [here designate the responsible official in the office
designated in Section 2] in the
office where the certificate is re-

corded to record the cancellation
or amendment of the certificate;
and when the certificate is to be
amended, the court shall also
cause to be filed for record in
said office a certified copy of its
decree setting forth the amendment.
(5) A certificate is amended
or cancelled when there is filed
for record in the office [here designate the office designated in
Section 2] where the certificate
is recorded
(a) A writing in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph
(i1, or (2) or
(b) A certified copy of the
order of court in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (4).
(6) After the certificate is
duly amended in accordance with
this section, the amended certificate shall thereafter be, for all
purposes the certificate provided
for by this act.
Section 26. Parties to Actions.—A contributor, unless he
is a general partner, is not a
proper party to proceedings by
or against a partnership, except
where the object is to enforce a
limited partner’s right against or
liability to the partnership.
Section 27. Name of Act.—
This act may be cited as The
Uniform Limited Partnership Act.
Section 28. Rules of Construction.—
(1) The rule that statutes in
derogation of the common law
are to be strictly construed shall
have no application to this act.
(2) This act shall be so interpreted and construed as to effect its general purpose to make
uniform the law of those states
which enact it.
(3) This act shall not be so
construed as to impair the
obligations of any contract existing when the act goes into effect,
nor to affect any action on pro-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

ceedings begun or right accrued
before this act takes effect.
Section 29. Rules for Cases
Not Provided for in this Act.— In
any case not provided for in this
act the rules of law and equity,
including the law merchant, shall
govern.
Section 30. Provisions for
Existing Limited Partnerships.—
(1) A limited partnership
formed under any statute of this
state prior to the adoption of this
act, may become a limited
partnership under this act by
complying with the provisions of
Section 2; provided the certificate sets forth
(a) The amount of the original contribution of each limited
partner, and the time when the
contribution was made, and
(b) That the property of the
partnership exceeds the amount
sufficient to discharge its liabilities to persons not claiming as
general or limited partners by an
amount greater than the sum of
the contributions of its limited
partners.
(2) A limited partnership
formed under any statute of this
state prior to the adoption of this
act, until or unless it becomes a
limited partnership under this
act, shall continue to be governed by the provisions of (here
insert proper reference to the
existing limited partnership act
or acts), except that such
partnership shall not be renewed
unless so provided in the original agreement.
Section 31. Act (Acts) Repealed.—Except as affecting
existing limited partnerships to
the extent set forth in Section 30,
the act (acts) of (here designate
the existing limited partnership
act or acts) is (are) hereby repealed.

Appendix: Principal Uniform Laws
Affecting Business Transactions

Uniform Sales Act
FORMALITIES
OF THE CONTRACT

Section 1. Contracts to Sell
and Sales.—
(1) A contract to sell goods .
a contract whereby the seller
agrees to transfer the property
in goods to the buyer for a consideration called the price.
(2) A sale of goods is an
agreement whereby the seller
transfers the property in goods
to the buyer for a consideration
called the price.
(3) A contract to sell or a sale
may be absolute or conditional.
(4) There may be a contract
to sell or a sale between one part
owner and another.

Section 3. Form of Contract
or Sale.—Subject to the provisions of this act and of any statute in that behalf, a contract to
sell or a sale may be made in
writing (either with or without
seal), or by word of mouth, or
partly in writing and partly by
word of mouth, or may be inferred from the conduct of the
parties.

Section 2. Capacity; Liabilities for Necessaries.—Capacity to
buy and sell is regulated by the
general law concerning capacity
to contract, and to transfer and
acquire property.
Where necessaries are sold
and delivered to an infant, or to
a person who by reason of mental incapacity or drunkenness is
incompetent to contract, he must
pay a reasonable price therefor.
Necessaries in this section
mean goods suitable to the
condition in life of such infant or
other person, and to his actual
requirements at the time of delivery.

Section 4. Statute of
Frauds.—
(1) A contract to sell or a sale
of any goods or choses in action
of the value of $500 or upwards
shall not be enforceable by action unless the buyer shall accept
part of the goods or choses in
action so contracted to be sold
or sold, and actually receive the
same, or give something in earnest to bind the contract, or in
part payment, or unless some
note or memorandum in writing
of the contract or sale be signed
by the party to be charged or his
agent in that behalf.
(2) The provisions of this section apply to every such contract
or sale, notwithstanding that the
goods may be intended to be
delivered at some future time or
may not at the time of such contract or sale be actually made,

www.suspicions.com

procured, or provided, or fit or
ready for delivery, or some act
may be requisite for the making
or completing thereof, or rendering the same fit for delivery; but
if the goods are to be manufactured by the seller especially for
the buyer and are not suitable
for sale to others in the ordinary
course of the seller’s business,
the provisions of this section
shall not apply.
(3) There is an acceptance of
goods within the meaning of this
section when the buyer, either
before or after delivery of the
goods, expresses by words or
conduct his assent to becoming
the owner of those specific goods.
SUBJECT-MATTER
OF CONTRACT
Section 5. Existing and Future Goods.—
(1) The goods which form the
subject of a contract to sell may
be either existing goods, owned
or possessed by the seller, or
goods to be manufactured or
acquired by the seller after the
making of the contract to sell, in
this act called “future goods.”
(2) There may be a contract
to sell goods, the acquisition of
which by the seller depends upon
a contingency which may or may
not happen.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

PART I. FORMATION
OF THE CONTRACT

113

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(3) ‘Where the parties purport to effect a present sale of
future goods, the agreement
operates as a contract to sell the
goods.

114

Section
6.
Undivided
Shares.—
(1) There may be a contract
to sell or a sale of an undivided
share of goods. If the parties intend to effect a present sale, the
buyer, by force of the agreement,
becomes an owner in common
with the owner or owners of the
remaining shares.
(2) In the case of fungible
goods, there may be a sale of an
undivided share of a specific
mass, though the seller purports
to sell and the buyer to buy a
definite number, weight or measure of the goods in the mass,
and though the number, weight
or measure of the goods in the
mass is undetermined. By such
a sale the buyer becomes owner
in common of such a share of the
mass as the number, weight or
measure bought bears to the
number, weight or measure of
the mass. If the mass contains
less than the number, weight or
measure bought, the buyer becomes the owner of the whole
mass and the seller is bound to
make good the deficiency from
similar goods unless a contrary
intent appears.
Section 7. Destruction of
Goods Sold.—
(1) Where the parties purport
to sell specific goods, and the
goods without the knowledge of
the seller have wholly perished
at the time when the agreement
is made, the agreement is void.
(2) Where the parties purport to sell specific goods, and
the goods without the knowledge of the seller have perished
in part or have wholly or in a
material part so deteriorated in
quality as to be substantially
changed in character, the buyer
may at his option treat the sale:

(a) As avoided, or
(b) As transferring the property in all of the existing goods
or in so much thereof as have not
deteriorated, and as binding. the
buyer to pay the full agreed price
if the sale was indivisible, or to
pay the agreed price for the
goods in which the property
passes if the sale was divisible.
Section 8. Destruction of
Goods Contracted to be Sold.—
(1) Where there is a contract
to sell specific goods, and subsequently, but before the risk
passes to the buyer, without any
fault on the part. of the seller or
the buyer, the goods wholly perish, the contract is thereby
avoided.
(2) Where there is a contract
to sell specific goods, and subsequently, but before the risk
passes to the buyer, without any
fault of the seller or the buyer,
part of the goods perish or the
whole or a material part of the
goods so deteriorate in quality
as to be substantially changed in
character, the buyer may at his
option treat the contract:
(a) As avoided, or
(b) As binding the seller to
transfer the property in all of the
existing goods or in so much
thereof as have not deteriorated,
and as binding the buyer to pay
the full agreed price if the contract was indivisible, or to pay the
agreed price for so much of the
goods as the seller, by the
buyer’s option, is bound to transfer if the contract was divisible.
THE PRICE
Section 9. Definition and Ascertainment of Price.—
(1) The price may be fixed by
the contract, or may be left to be
fixed in such manner as may be
agreed, or it may be determined
by the course of dealing between
the parties.
(2) The price may be made

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

payable in any personal property.
(3) Where transferring or
promising to transfer any interest in real estate constitutes the
whole or part of the consideration for transferring or for
promising to transfer the property in goods, this act shall not
apply.
(4) Where the price is not
determined in accordance with
the foregoing provisions the
buyer must pay a reasonable
price. What is a reasonable price
is a question of fact dependent
on the circumstances of each
particular case.
Section 10. Sale at a Valuation.—
(1) Where there is a contract
to sell or a sale of goods at a
price or on terms to be fixed by
a third person, and such third
person without fault of the seller
or the buyer, cannot or does not
fix the price or terms, the contract or the sale is thereby
avoided; but if the goods or any
part thereof have been delivered
to and appropriated by the buyer
he must pay a reasonable price
therefor.
(2) Where such third person
is prevented from fixing the price
or terms by fault of the seller or
the buyer, the party not in fault
may have such remedies against
the party in fault as are allowed
by Parts IV and V of this act.
CONDITIONS
AND WARRANTIES
Section 11. Effect of Conditions.—
(1) Where the obligation of
either party to a contract to sell
or a sale is subject to any condition which is not performed, such
party may refuse to proceed with
the contract or sale or he may
waive performance of the condition. If the other party has promised that the condition should
happen or be performed, such

first mentioned party may also
treat the non-performance of the
condition as a breach of warranty.
(2) Where the property in the
goods has not passed, the buyer
may treat the fulfillment by the
seller of his obligation to furnish
goods as described and as warranted expressly or by implication in the contract to sell as a
condition of the obligation of the
buyer to perform his promise to
accept and pay for the goods.
Section 12. Definition of Express Warranty.—Any affirmation
of fact or any promise by the
seller relating to the goods is an
express warranty if the natural
tendency of such affirmation or
promise is to induce the buyer
to purchase the goods, and if the
buyer purchases the goods relying thereon. No affirmation of the
value of the goods, nor any statement purporting to be a statement of the seller’s opinion only
shall be construed as a warranty.

Section 14. Implied Warranty
in Sale by Description.—Where
there is a contract to sell or a sale
of goods by description, there is
an implied warranty that the
goods shall correspond with the
description and if the contract or
sale be by sample, as well as by
description, it is not sufficient
that the bulk of the goods corresponds with the sample if the
goods do not also correspond
with the description.
Section 15. Implied Warranties of Quality.—Subject to the
provisions of this act and of any
statute in that behalf, there is no
implied warranty or condition as
to the quality or fitness for any
particular purpose of goods supplied under a contract to sell or
a sale, except as follows:
(1) Where the buyer, expressly or by implication, makes
known to the seller the particular purpose for which the goods
are required, and it appears that
the buyer relies on the seller’s
skill or judgment (whether he be
the grower or manufacturer
or not), there is an implied
warranty that the goods shall be
reasonably fit for such purpose.
(2) Where the goods are
bought by description from a
seller who deals in goods of that
description (whether he be the
grower or manufacturer or not),
there is an implied warranty that
the goods shall be of merchantable quality.
(3) If the buyer has examined the goods, there is no implied warranty as regards defects
which such examination ought to
have revealed.
(4) In the case of a contract
to sell or a sale of a specified article under its patent or other
trade name, there is no implied

www.suspicions.com

warranty as to its fitness for any
particular purpose.
(5) An implied warranty or
condition as to quality or fitness
for a particular purpose may be
annexed by the usage of trade.
(6) An express warranty or
condition does not negative a
warranty or condition implied
under this act unless inconsistent therewith.
SALE BY SAMPLE
Section 16. Implied Warranties in Sale by Sample.—In the
case of a contract to sell or a sale
by sample:
(a) There is an implied warranty that the bulk shall correspond with the sample in quality.
(b) There is an implied warranty that the buyer shall have a
reasonable opportunity of comparing the bulk with the sample,
except so far as otherwise provided in section 47 (3).
(c) If the seller is a dealer in
goods of that kind, there is an
implied warranty that the goods
shall be free from any defect rendering them unmerchantable
which would not be apparent on
reasonable examination of the
sample.
PART II. TRANSFER OF
PROPERTY AS BETWEEN
SELLER AND BUYER
Section 17. No Property
Passes until Goods Are Ascertained.—Where there is a contract to sell unascertained goods
no property in the goods is transferred to the buyer unless and
until the goods are ascertained,
but property in an undivided
share of ascertained goods may
be transferred as provided in
Section 6.
Section 18. Property in Specific Goods Passes When Parties
so Intend.—

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 13. Implied Warranties of Title.—In a contract to sell
or a sale, unless a contrary intention appears, there is:
(1) An implied warranty on
the part of the seller that in case
of a sale he has a right to sell
the goods, and that in case of a
contract to sell he will have a
right to sell the goods at the time
when the property is to pass;
(2) An implied warranty that
the buyer shall have and enjoy
quiet possession of the goods as
against any lawful claims existing at the time of the sale;
(3) An implied warranty that
the goods shall be free at the
time of the sale from any charge
or encumbrance in favor of any
third person, not declared or
known to the buyer before or at
the time when the contract or
sale is made.
(4) This section shall not,
however, be held to render liable
a sheriff, auctioneer, mortgagee,

or other person professing to sell
by virtue of authority in fact or
law goods in which a third person has a legal or equitable interest.

115

(1) Where there is a contract
to sell specific or ascertained
goods, the property in them is
transferred to the buyer at such
time as the parties to the contract intend it to be transferred.
(2) For the purpose of ascertaining the intention of the parties, regard shall be had to the
terms of the contract, the conduct of the parties, usages of
trade and the circumstances of
the case.
Section 19. Rules for Ascertaining Intention.—Unless a
different intention appears, the
following are rules for ascertaining the intention of the parties
as to the time at which the property in the goods is to pass to
the buyer.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

RULE 1.—Where there is an
unconditional contract to sell
specific goods, in a deliverable
state, the property in the goods
passes to the buyer when the
contract is made and it is immaterial whether the time of payment, or the time of delivery, or
both, be postponed.

116

RULE 2.—Where there is a
contract to sell specific goods
and the seller is bound to do
something to the goods, for the
purpose of puffing them into a
deliverable state, the property
does not pass until such thing
be done.
RULE 3.—
(1) When goods are delivered
to the buyer “on sale or return,”
or on other terms indicating an
intention to make a present sale,
but to give the buyer an option
to return the goods instead of
paying the price, the property
passes to the buyer on delivery,
but he may revest the property
in the seller by returning or tendering the goods within the time
fixed in the contract, or, if no
time has been fixed, within a reasonable time.

(2) When goods are delivered to the buyer on approval or
on trial or on satisfaction, or
other similar terms, the property
therein passes to the buyer:
(a) When he signifies his approval or acceptance to the seller
or does any other act adopting
the transaction;
(b) If he does not signify his
approval or acceptance to the
seller, but retains the goods without giving notice of rejection,
then if a time has been fixed for
the return of the goods, on the
expiration of such time, and, if
no time has been fixed, on the
expiration of a reasonable time.
What is a reasonable time is a
question of fact
RULE 4.—
(1) Where there is a contract
to sell unascertained or future
goods by description, and goods
of that description and in a deliverable state are unconditionally
appropriated to the contract, either by the seller with the assent
of the buyer, or by the buyer with
the assent of the seller, the property in the goods thereupon
passes to the buyer. Such assent
may be expressed or implied, and
may be given either before or after the appropriation is made.
(2) Where, in pursuance of a
contract to sell, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer, or to
a carrier or other bailee (whether
named by the buyer or not) for
the purpose of transmission to
or holding for the buyer, he is
presumed to have unconditionally appropriated the goods to
the contract, except in the cases
provided for in the next rule and
in section 20. This presumption
is applicable, although by the
terms of the contract the buyer
is to pay the price before receiving delivery of the goods, and the
goods are marked with the words
“collect on delivery” or their
equivalents.

Suspicions News Magazine

RULE 5.—If the contract to

www.suspicions.info

sell requires the seller to deliver
the goods to the buyer, or at a
particular place, or to pay the
freight or cost or transportation
to the buyer, or to a particular
place, the property does not pass
until the goods have been delivered to the buyer or reached
the place agreed upon.
Section 20. Reservation of
Right of Possession or Property
When Goods are shipped.—
(1) Where there is a contract
to sell specific goods, or where
goods are subsequently appropriated to the contract, the seller
may, by the terms of the contract
or appropriation, reserve the
right of possession or property
in the goods until certain conditions have been fulfilled. The
right of possession or property
may be thus reserved notwithstanding the delivery of the
goods to the buyer or to a carrier or other bailee for the purpose of transmission to the
buyer.
(2) Where
goods
are
shipped, and by the bill of lading the goods are deliverable to
the seller or his agent, or to the
order of the seller or of his agent,
the seller thereby reserves the
property in the goods. But if,
except for the form of the bill of
lading, the property would have
passed to the buyer on shipment
of the goods, the seller’s property in the goods shall be
deemed to be only for the purpose of securing performance by
the buyer of his obligations under the contract.
(3) Where
goods
are
shipped, and by the bill of lading the goods are deliverable to
the order of the buyer or of his
agent, but possession of the bill
of lading is retained by the seller
or his agent, the seller thereby
reserves a right to the possession of the goods as against the
buyer.
(4) Where the seller of goods
draws on the buyer for the price

and transmits the bill of exchange and bill of lading together to the buyer to secure
acceptance or payment of the bill
of exchange, the buyer is bound
to return the bill of lading if he
does not honor the bill of exchange, and if he wrongfully retains the bill of lading he acquires no added right thereby.
If, however, the bill of lading provides that the goods are deliverable to the buyer or to the
order of the buyer, or is indorsed
in blank, or to the buyer by the
consignee named therein, one
who purchases in good faith, for
value, the bill of lading, or goods
from the buyer will obtain the
property in the goods, although
the bill of exchange has not been
honored, provided that such purchaser has received delivery of
the bill of lading indorsed by the
consignee named therein, or of
the goods, without notice of the
facts making the transfer wrongful.

Section 22. Risk of Loss—
Unless otherwise agreed, the
goods remain at the seller’s risk
until the property therein is
transferred to the buyer, but
when the property therein is
transferred to the buyer the
goods are at the buyer’s risk
whether delivery has been made
or not, except that:
(a) Where delivery of the
goods has been made to the
buyer, or to a bailee for the
buyer, in pursuance of the contract and the property in the
goods has been retained by the
seller merely to secure performance by the buyer of his obligations under the contract, the
goods are at the buyer’s risk
from the time of such delivery.
(b) Where delivery has been
delayed through the fault of either buyer or seller the goods are
at the risk of the party in fault as
regards any loss which might not
have occurred but for such fault.
TRANSFER OF TITLE
Section 23. Sale by a Person
Not the Owner.—
(1) Subject to the provisions
of this act, where goods are sold
by a person who is not the owner
thereof, and who does not sell
them under the authority or with
the consent of the owner, the
buyer acquires no better title to
the goods than the seller had,
unless the owner of the goods is
by his conduct precluded from
denying the seller’s authority to
sell.
(2) Nothing in this act, however, shall affect:

www.suspicions.com

(a) The provisions of any factors’ acts, recording acts, or any
enactment enabling the apparent
owner of goods to dispose of
them as if he were the true owner
thereof.
(b) The validity of any contract
to sell or sale under any special
common law or statutory power
of sale or under the order of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 24. Sale by One Having a Voidable Title.—Where the
seller of goods has a voidable
title thereto, but his title has not
been avoided at the time of the
sale, the buyer acquires a good
title to the goods, provided he
buys them in good faith, for
value, and without notice of the
seller’s defect of title.
Section 25. Sale by Seller in
Possession of Goods Already
Sold.—Where a person having
sold goods continues in possession of the goods, or of negotiable documents of title to the
goods, the delivery or transfer by
that person, or by an agent acting for him, of the goods or documents of title under any sale,
pledge, or other disposition
thereof, to any person receiving
and paying value for the same in
good faith and without notice of
the previous sale, shall have the
same effect as if the person making the delivery or transfer were
expressly authorized by the
owner of the goods to make the
same. [Compare Sales Act, Secs.
20(4), 23, and 27 through 40.]
Section 26. Creditors’ Rights
against Sold Goods in Seller’s
Possession.—Where a person
having sold goods continues in
possession of the goods, or of
negotiable documents of title to
the goods and such retention of
possession is fraudulent in fact
or is deemed fraudulent under
any rule of law, a creditor or
creditors of the seller may treat
the sale as void.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 21. Sale by Auction.—In the case of sale by auction:
(1) Where goods are put up
for sale by auction in lots, each
lot is the subject of a separate
contract of sale.
(2) A sale by auction is complete when the auctioneer announces its completion by the
fall of the hammer, or in other
customary manner. Until such
announcement is made, any bidder may retract his bid; and the
auctioneer may withdraw the
goods from sale unless the auction has been announced to be
without reserve.
(3) A right to bid may be reserved expressly by or on behalf
of the seller.
(4) Where notice has not
been given that a sale by auction
is subject to a right to bid on
behalf of the seller, it shall not
be lawful for the seller to bid himself or to employ or induce any
person to bid at such sale on his

behalf, or for the auctioneer to
employ or induce any person to
bid at such sale on behalf of the
seller or knowingly to take any
bid from the seller or any person employed by him. Any sale
contravening this rule may be
treated as fraudulent by the
buyer.

117

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 27. Definition of Negotiable Documents of Title.— A
document of title in which it is
stated that the goods referred to
therein will be delivered to the
bearer, or to the order of any
person named in such document
is a negotiable document of title..

118

Section 28. Negotiation of
Negotiable Documents by Delivery.—A negotiable document
of title may be negotiated by delivery:
(a) Where by the terms of the
document the carrier, warehouseman or other bailee issuing the same undertakes to deliver the goods to the bearer, or
(b) Where by the terms of the
document the carrier, warehouseman or other bailee issuing the same undertakes to deliver the goods to the order of a
specified person, and such person or a subsequent indorsee of
the document has indorsed it in
blank or to bearer.
Where by the terms of a negotiable document of title the
goods are deliverable to bearer
or where a negotiable document
of title has been indorsed in
blank or to bearer, any holder
may indorse the same to himself
or to any other specified person,
and in such case the document
shall thereafter be negotiated
only by the indorsement of such
indorsee.
Section 29. Negotiation of
Negotiable Documents by
Indorsement.—A negotiable
document of title may be negotiated by the indorsement of the
person to whose order the goods
are by the terms of the document
deliverable. Such indorsement
may be in blank, to bearer or to
a specified person. If indorsed to
a specified person, it may be
again negotiated by the indorsement of such person in blank, to
bearer or to another specified
person. Subsequent negotiation
may be made in like manner.

Section 30. Negotiable Documents of Title (marked “not negotiable.”)—If a document of title
which contains an undertaking
by a carrier, warehouseman or
other bailee to deliver the goods
to the bearer, to a specified person or order, or to the order of a
specified person, or which contains words of like import, has
placed upon it the words “not
negotiable,” “non-negotiable” or
the like, such a document may
nevertheless be negotiated by
the holder and is a negotiable
document of title within the
meaning of this act. But nothing
in this act contained shall be construed as limiting or defining the
effect upon the obligations of the
carrier, warehouseman, or other
bailee issuing a document of title
of placing thereon the words “not
negotiable,” “nonnegotiable,” or
the like.
Section 31. Transfer of Nonnegotiable Documents.—A document of title which is not in such
form that it can be negotiated by
delivery may be transferred by
the holder by delivery to a purchaser or donee. A non-negotiable document can not be negotiated and the indorsement of
such a document gives the transferee no additional right.
Section 32. Who May Negotiate
a Document.—A negotiable document of title may be negotiated:
(a) By the owner thereof, or
(B) By any person to whom
the possession or custody of the
document has been entrusted by
the owner, if, by the terms of the
document the bailee issuing the
document undertakes to deliver
the goods to the order of the
person to whom the possession
or custody of the document has
been entrusted, or if at the time
of such entrusting the document is in such form that it may
be negotiated by delivery.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

[Under the Sales Act Amendments of 1922 the section would
read:
“Section 32. [Who May Negotiate a Document.] A negotiable
document of title may be negotiated by any person in possession
of the same, however such possession may have been acquired
if, by the terms of the document,
the bailee issuing it undertakes
to deliver the goods to the order
of such person, or if at the time
of negotiation the document is
in such form that it may be negotiated by delivery.”]
Section 33. Rights of Person
to Whom Document Has Been
Negotiated.—A person to whom
a negotiable document of title
has been duly negotiated acquires thereby:
(a) Such title to the goods as
the person negotiating the document to him had or had ability
to convey to a purchaser in good
faith for value and also such title
to the goods as the person to
whose order the goods were to
be delivered by the terms of the
document had or had ability to
convey to a purchaser in good
faith for value, and
(B) The direct obligation of
the bailee issuing the document
to hold possession of the goods
for him according to the terms
of the document as fully as if
such bailee had contracted directly with him.
Section 34. Rights of Persons
to Whom Document Has Been
Transferred.—A person to whom
a document of title has been
transferred, but not negotiated,
acquires thereby, as against the
transferor, the title to the goods,
subject to the terms of any agreement with the transferor.
If the document is non-negotiable, such person also acquires
the right to notify the bailee who
issued the document of the
transfer thereof, and thereby to

acquire the direct obligation of
such bailee to hold possession of the goods for him according to the terms of the document.
Prior to the notification of
such bailee by the transferor or
transferee of a non-negotiable
document of title, the title of the
transferee to the goods and the
right to acquire the obligation of
such bailee may be defeated by
the levy of an attachment or execution upon the goods by a
creditor of the transferor or by a
notification to such bailee by the
transferor or a subsequent purchaser from the transferor of a
subsequent sale of the goods by
the transferor.
Section 35. Transfer of Negotiable Document without Indorsement.—Where a negotiable
document of title is transferred
for value by delivery, and the indorsement of the transferor is
essential for negotiation, the
transferee acquires a right
against the transferor to compel
him to indorse the document
unless a contrary intention appears. The negotiation shall take
effect as of the time when the
indorsement is actually made.

(a) That the document is
genuine;
(b) That he has a legal right
to negotiate or transfer it;
(c) That he has knowledge of
no fact which would impair the
validity or worth of the document, and
(d) That he has a right to
transfer the title to the goods
and that the goods are merchantable or fit for a particular pur-

Section 37. Indorser Not a
Guarantor.—The indorsement of
a document of title shall not
make the indorser liable for any
failure on the part of the bailee who issued the document or
previous indorsers thereof to fulfill their respective obligations.
Section 38. When Negotiation Not Impaired by Fraud, Mistake or Duress.—The validity of
the negotiation of a negotiable
document of title is not impaired
by the fact that the negotiation
was a breach of duty on the part
of the person making the negotiation, or by the fact that the
owner of the document was induced by fraud, mistake or duress to entrust the possession or
custody thereof to such person,
if the person to whom the document was negotiated or a person
to whom the document was subsequently negotiated paid value
therefor, without notice of the
breach of duty, or fraud, mistake
or duress.
[Under the Sales Act Amendments of 1922 the section would
read:
“Section 38. [When Negotiation Not Impaired by Fraud, Mistake or Duress.] The validity of the
negotiation of a negotiable document of title is not impaired by
the fact that the negotiation was
a breach of duty on the part of
the person making the negotiation, or by the fact that the owner
of the document was deprived of
the possession of the same by
loss, theft, fraud, accident, mistake, duress, or conversion, if the
person to whom the document
was negotiated or a person to
whom the document was subse-

www.suspicions.com

quently negotiated paid value
therefor in good faith without
notice of the breach of duty, or
loss, theft, fraud, accident, mistake, duress or conversion.”]
Section 39. Attachment or
Levy upon Goods for Which a
Negotiable Document Has Been
Issued.—If goods are delivered to
a bailee by the owner or by a
person whose act in conveying
the title to them to a purchaser
in good faith for value would
bind the owner and a negotiable
document of title is issued for
them they can not thereafter,
while in the possession of such
bailee, be attached by garnishment or otherwise or be levied
upon under an execution unless
the document be first surrendered to the bailee or its negotiation enjoined. The bailee shall
in no case be compelled to deliver up the actual possession of
the goods until the document is
surrendered to him or impounded by the court.
Section 40. Creditors’ Remedies to Reach Negotiable Documents.—A creditor whose debtor
is the owner of a negotiable
document of title shall be entitled to such aid from courts of
appropriate jurisdiction by injunction and otherwise in attaching such document or in satisfying the claim by means thereof
as is allowed at law or in equity
in regard to property which can
not readily be attached or levied
upon by ordinary legal process.
PART III. PERFORMANCE
OF THE CONTRACT
Section 41. Seller Must Deliver and Buyer Accept Goods.—
It is the duty of the seller to deliver the goods, and of the buyer
to accept and pay for them, in
accordance with the terms of the
contract to sell or sale.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 36. Warranties on
sale of document.—A person
who for value negotiates or
transfers a document of title by
indorsement or delivery, including one who assigns for value a
claim secured by a document of
title unless a contrary intention
appears, warrants:

pose, whenever such warranties
would have been implied if the
contract of the parties had been
to transfer without a document
of title the goods represented
thereby.

119

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 42. Delivery and Payment are Concurrent Conditions.
—Unless otherwise agreed,
delivery of the goods and payment
of the price are concurrent conditions; that is to say, the seller must
be ready and willing to give possession of the goods to the buyer
in exchange for the price and the
buyer must be ready and willing
to pay the price in exchange for
possession of the goods.

120

Section 43. Place, Time and
Manner of Delivery.—(1) Whether
it is for the buyer to take possession of the goods or for the
seller to send them to the buyer
is a question depending in each
case on the contract, express or
implied, between the parties.
Apart from any such contract,
express or implied, or usage of
trade to the contrary, the place
of delivery is the seller’s place of
business if he have one, and if
not his residence; but in the case
of a contract to sell or a sale of
specific goods, which to the
knowledge of the parties
when the contract or the sale was
made were in some other place,
then that place is the place of
delivery.
(2) Where by a contract to sell
or a sale the seller is bound to
send the goods to the buyer, but
no time for sending them is
fixed, the seller is bound to send
them within a reasonable time.
(3) Where the goods at the
time of sale are in the possession of a third person, the seller
has not fulfilled his obligation to
deliver to the buyer unless and
until such third person acknowledges to the buyer that he holds
the goods on the buyer’s behalf;
but as against all others than the
seller the buyer shall be regarded
as having received delivery from
the time when such third person
first has notice of the sale. Nothing in this section, however, shall
affect the operation of the issue
or transfer of any document of
title to goods.

(4) Demand or tender of delivery may be treated as ineffectual unless made at a reasonable
hour. What is a reasonable hour
is a question of fact.
(5) Unless otherwise agreed,
the expenses of and incidental
to putting the goods into a deliverable state must be borne by
the seller.
Section Delivery of Wrong
Quantity.—(1) Where the seller
delivers to the buyer a quantity
of goods less than he contracted
to sell, the buyer may reject
them, but if the buyer accepts or
retains the goods so delivered,
knowing that the seller is not
going to perform the contract in
full, he must pay for them at the
contract rate. If, however, the
buyer has used or disposed of
the goods delivered before he
knows that the seller is not going to perform his contract in full,
the buyer shall not be liable for
more than the fair value to him
of the goods so received.
(2) Where the seller delivers
to the buyer a quantity of goods
larger than he contracted to sell,
the buyer may accept the goods
included in the contract and reject the rest, or he may reject the
whole. If the buyer accepts
the whole of the goods so delivered he must pay for them at the
contract rate.
(3) Where the seller delivers
to the buyer the goods he contracted to sell mixed with goods
of a different description not included in the contract, the buyer
may accept the goods which are
in accordance with the contract
and reject the rest, or he may
reject the whole.
(4) The provisions of this section are subject to any usage-of
trade, special agreement, or
course of dealing between the
parties.
Section 45. Delivery in Installments.—(1) Unless otherwise
agreed, the buyer of goods is not

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

bound to accept delivery thereof
by installments.
(2) Where there is a contract
to sell goods to be delivered by
stated installments, which are to
be separately paid for, and the
seller makes defective deliveries
in respect of one or more installments, or the buyer neglects
or refuses to take delivery of or
pay for one or more installments,
it depends in each case on the
terms of the contract and the circumstances of the case, whether
the breach of contract is so material as to justify the injured
party in refusing to proceed further and suing for damages for
breach of the entire contract, or
whether the breach is severable,
giving rise to a claim for compensation, but not to a right to treat
the whole contract as broken.
Section 46. Delivery to a Carrier on Behalf of the Buyer.— (1)
Where, in pursuance of a contract
to sell or a sale, the seller is authorized or required to send the
goods to the buyer, delivery of
the goods to a carrier, whether
named by the buyer or not, for
the purpose of transmission to
the buyer is deemed to be a delivery of the goods to the buyer,
except in the cases provided for
in section 19, Rule 5, or unless a
contrary intent appears.
(2) Unless otherwise authorized by the buyer, the seller
must make such contract with
the carrier on behalf of the buyer
as may be reasonable, having
regard to the nature of the goods
and the other circumstances of
the case. If the seller omit so to
do,
and the goods are lost or
damaged in course of transit, the
buyer may decline to treat the
delivery to the carrier as a delivery to himself, or may hold the
seller responsible in damages.
(3) Unless otherwise agreed,
where goods are sent by the
seller to the buyer under circumstances in which the seller knows

or ought to know that it is usual
to insure, the seller must give
such notice to the buyer as may
enable him to insure them during their transit, and, if the seller
fails to do so, the goods shall be
deemed to be at his risk during
such transit.

Section 48. What Constitutes
Acceptance.—The buyer is
deemed to have accepted the
goods when he intimates to the
seller that he has accepted them,
or when the goods have been
delivered to him, and he does any
act in relation to them which is
inconsistent with the ownership
of the seller, or when, after the
lapse of a reasonable time, he
retains the goods without inti-

Section 50. Buyer Is Not
Bound to Return Goods Wrongly
Delivered.—Unless otherwise
agreed, where the goods are delivered to the buyer, and he refuses to accept them, having the
right to do so, he is not bound
to return them, to the seller, but
it is sufficient if he notifies the
seller that he refused to accept
them.
Section 51. Buyer’s Liability
for Failing to Accept Delivery.—
When the seller is ready and willing to deliver the goods, and requests the buyer to take delivery, and the buyer does not
within a reasonable time after
such request take delivery of the
goods, he is liable to the seller
for any loss occasioned by his
neglect or refusal to take delivery, and also for a reasonable
charge for the care and custody
of the goods. If the neglect or
refusal of the buyer to take delivery amounts to a repudiation
or breach of the entire contract,
the seller shall have the rights
against the goods and on the
contract hereinafter provided in
favor of the seller when the buyer
is in default.

www.suspicions.com

PART IV. RIGHTS OF UNPAID
SELLER AGAINST THE GOODS
Section 52. Definition of Unpaid Seller.—(1) The seller of
goods is deemed to be an unpaid
seller within the meaning of this
act—
(a) When the whole of the
price has not been paid or tendered.
(b) When a bill of exchange
or other negotiable instrument
has been received as conditional
payment, and the condition on
which it was received has been
broken by reason of the dishonor
of the instrument, the insolvency
of the buyer, or otherwise.
(2) In this part of this act the
term “seller” includes an agent
of the seller to whom the bill of
lading has been indorsed, or a
consignor or agent who has himself paid, or is directly responsible for, the price, or any other
person who is in the position of
a seller.
Section 53. Remedies of an
Unpaid Seller.—(1) Subject to the
provisions of this act, notwithstanding that the property in the
goods may have passed to the
buyer, the unpaid seller of goods,
as such, has—
(a) A lien on the goods or
right to retain them for the price
while he is in possession of them;
(b) In case of the insolvency
of the buyer, a right of stopping
the goods in transitu after he has
parted with the possession of
them;
(c) A right of resale as limited by this act;
(d) A right to rescind the sale
as limited by this act.
(2) Where the property in
goods has not passed to the
buyer, the unpaid seller has, in
addition to his other remedies,
a right of withholding delivery
similar to and coextensive with

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 47. Right to Examine
the Goods.—(1) Where goods are
delivered to the buyer, which he
has not previously examined, he
is not deemed to have accepted
them unless and until he has had
a reasonable opportunity of examining them for the purpose of
ascertaining whether they are in
conformity with the contract.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed,
when the seller tenders delivery
of goods to the buyer, he is
bound, on request, to afford the
buyer a reasonable opportunity
of examining the goods for the
purpose of ascertaining whether
they are in conformity with the
contract.
(3) Where the goods are delivered to a carrier by the seller,
in accordance with an order from
or agreement with the buyer,
upon the terms that the goods
shall not be delivered by the carrier to the buyer until he has paid
the price, whether such terms are
indicated by marking the goods
with the words “collect on delivery,” or otherwise, the buyer is
not entitled to examine the
goods before payment of the
price in the absence of agreement permitting such examination.

mating to the seller that he has
rejected them.
Section 49. Acceptance Does
Not Bar Action for Damages.
—In the absence of express
or implied agreement of the parties, acceptance of the goods by
the buyer shall not discharge the
seller from liability in damages
or other legal remedy for breach
of any promise or warranty in the
contract to sell or the sale. But,
if, after acceptance of the goods,
the buyer fail to give notice to
the seller of the breach of any
promise or warranty within a reasonable time after the buyer
knows, or ought to know of such
breach, the seller shall not be liable therefor.

121

his rights of lien and stoppage
in transitu where the property
has passed to the buyer.
UNPAID SELLER’S LIEN
Section 54. When Right of
Lien May Be Exercised.—(1)
Subject to the provisions of
this act, the unpaid seller of
goods who is in possession of
them is entitled to retain possession of
them until payment or tender of the price in the following
cases, namely:

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(a) Where the goods have
been sold without any stipulation
as to credit;
(b) Where the goods have
been sold on credit, but the term
of credit has expired;
(c) Where the buyer becomes insolvent.
(2) The seller may exercise
his right of lien notwithstanding
that he is in possession of the
goods as agent or bailee for the
buyer.

122

Section 55. Lien after Part
Delivery.—Where an unpaid
seller has made part delivery of
the goods, he may exercise his
right of lien on the remainder,
unless such part delivery has
been made under such circumstances as to show an intent to
waive the lien or right of retention.
Section 56. When Lien Is
Lost.—(1) The unpaid seller of
goods loses his lien thereon,—
(a) When he delivers the
goods to a carrier or other bailee for the purpose of transmission to the buyer without reserving the property in goods or the
right to the possession thereof;
(b) When the buyer or his
agent lawfully obtains possession of the goods;
(c) By waiver thereof.

(2) The unpaid seller of
goods, having a lien thereon,
does not lose his lien by reason
only that he has obtained judgment or decree for the price of
the goods.

Section 57. Seller May Stop
Goods on Buyer’s Insolvency.—
Subject to the provisions of this
act, when the buyer of goods is
or becomes insolvent, the unpaid
seller who has parted with the
possession of the goods has
the right of stopping them in
transitu, that is to say, he may
resume possession of the goods
at any time while they are in transit, and he will then become entitled to the same rights in regard to the goods as he would
have had if he had never parted
with the possession.

possession of them as bailee for
the buyer or his agent; and it is
immaterial that a further destination for the goods may have
been indicated by the buyer;
(c) If the carrier or other bailee wrongfully refuses to deliver
the goods to the buyer or his
agent in that behalf.
(3) If the goods are delivered
to a ship chartered by the buyer,
it is a question depending on the
circumstances of the particular
case, whether they are in the
possession of the master as a
carrier or as agent of the buyer.
(4) If part delivery of the
goods has been made to the
buyer, or his agent in that behalf,
the remainder of the goods may
be stopped in transitu, unless
such part delivery has been made
under such circumstances as
to show an agreement with the
buyer to give up possession of
the whole of the goods.

Section 58. When Goods Are
in Transit.—
(1) Goods are in transit within
the meaning of Section 57,—
(a) From the time when they
are delivered to a carrier by land
or water, or other bailee for the
purpose of transmission to the
buyer, until the buyer, or his
agent in that behalf, takes delivery of them from such carrier
or other bailee;
(b) If the goods are rejected
by the buyer, and the carrier or
other bailee continues in possession of them, even if the seller
has refused to receive them back.
(2) Goods are no longer in
transit within the meaning of
section 57,
(a) If the buyer, or his agent
in that behalf, obtains delivery of
the goods before their arrival at
the appointed destination;
(b) If, after the arrival of the
goods at the appointed destination, the carrier or other bailee
acknowledges to the buyer or his
agent that he holds the goods
on his behalf and continues in

Section Ways of Exercising
the Right to Stop.—
(1) The unpaid seller may
exercise his right of stoppage in
transitu either by obtaining actual possession of the goods or
by giving notice of his claim to
the carrier or other bailee in
whose possession the goods are.
Such notice may be given either
to the person in actual possession of the goods or to his principal. In the latter case the notice, to be effectual, must be
given at such time and under
such circumstances that the principal, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, may prevent a
delivery to the buyer.
(2) When notice of stoppage
in transitu is given by the seller
to the carrier, or other bailee in
possession of the goods, he
must redeliver the goods to, or
according to the directions of,
the seller. The expenses of such
delivery must be borne by the
seller. If, however, a negotiable
document of title representing
the goods has been issued by the

STOPPAGE IN TRANSITU

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

carrier or other bailee, he shall
not be obliged to deliver or justified in delivering the goods to
the seller unless such document
is first surrendered for cancellation.
RESALE BY THE SELLER

RESCISSION BY THE SELLER
Section 61. When and How
the Seller May Rescind the Sale.—
(1) An unpaid seller having a
right of lien or having stopped
the goods in transitu, may rescind the transfer of title and
resume the property in the
goods, where he expressly reserved the right to do so in case
the buyer should make default,
or where the buyer has been in
default in the payment of the
price an unreasonable time. The
seller shall not thereafter be liable to the buyer upon the contract to sell or the sale, but may
recover from the buyer damages
for any loss occasioned by the
breach of the contract or the sale.
(2) The transfer of title shall
not be held to have been rescinded by an unpaid seller until
he has manifested by notice to
the buyer or by some other overt
act an intention to rescind. It is
not necessary that such overt act
should be communicated to the
buyer, but the giving or failure
to give notice to the buyer of the
intention to rescind shall be relevant in any issue involving the
question whether the buyer had
been in default an unreasonable
time before the right of rescission was asserted.
Section 62. Effect of Sale of
Goods Subject to Lien or Stoppage in Transitu—Subject to the
provisions of this act, the unpaid
seller’s right of lien or stoppage
in transitu is not affected by any
sale, or other disposition of the
goods which the buyer may have
made, unless the seller has assented thereto.
If, however, a negotiable
document of title has been issued for goods, no seller’s lien
or right or stoppage in transitu

www.suspicions.com

shall defeat the right of any purchaser for value in good faith to
whom such document has been
negotiated, whether such negotiation be prior or subsequent to
the notification to the carrier, or
other bailee who issued such
document, of the seller’s claim
to a lien or right of stoppage in
transitu.
PART V. ACTIONS FOR
BREACH OF THE CONTRACT
REMEDIES OF THE SELLER
Section 63. Action for the
Price.—
( 1) Where, under a contract
to sell or a sale, the property in
the goods has passed to the
buyer, and the buyer wrongfully
neglects or refuses to pay for the
goods according to the terms of
the contract or the sale, the seller
may maintain an action against
him for the price of the goods.
(2) Where, under a contract
to sell or a sale, the price is payable on a day certain, irrespective of delivery or of transfer of
title, and the buyer wrongfully
neglects or refuses to pay such
price, the seller may maintain an
action for the price, although the
property in the goods has not
passed, and the goods have not
been appropriated to the contract. But it shall be a defense to
such an action that the seller at
any time before the judgment in
such action has manifested an
inability to perform the contract
or the sale on his part or an intention not to perform it.
(3) Although the property in
the goods has not passed, if they
can not readily be resold for a
reasonable price, and if the provisions of section 64 (4) are not
applicable, the seller may offer
to deliver the goods to the buyer,
and, if the buyer refuses to receive them, may notify the buyer
that the goods are thereafter
held by the seller as bailee for

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Section 60. When and How
Resale May Be Made.—
(1) Where the goods are of a
perishable nature, or where the
seller expressly reserves the
right of resale in case the buyer
should make default, or where
the buyer has been in default in
the payment of the price an unreasonable time, an unpaid seller
having a right of lien or having
stopped the goods in transitu
may resell the goods. He shall
not thereafter be liable to the
original buyer upon the contract
to sell or the sale or for any profit
made by such resale, but may
recover from the buyer damages
for any loss occasioned by the
breach of the contract or the sale.
(2) Where a resale is made,
as authorized in this section, the
buyer acquires a good title as
against the original buyer.
(3) It is not essential to the
validity of a resale that notice of
an intention to resell the goods
be given by the seller to the original buyer. But where the right to
resell is not based on the perishable nature of the goods or upon
an express provision of the contract or the sale, the giving or
failure to give such notice shall
be relevant in any issue involving the question whether the
buyer had been in default an
unreasonable time before the
resale was made.
(4) It is not essential to the
validity of a resale that notice of
the time and place of such resale
should be given by the seller to
the original buyer.
(5) The seller is bound to
exercise reasonable care and
judgment in making a resale, and

subject to this requirement may
make a resale either by public or
private sale.

123

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

the buyer. Thereafter the seller
may treat the goods as the
buyer’s and may maintain an action for the price.

124

Section 64. Action for Damages for Non-acceptance of the
Goods.—
(1) Where the buyer wrongfully neglects or refuses to accept
and pay for the goods, the seller
may maintain an action against
him for damages for non-acceptance.
(2) The measure of damages
is the estimated loss directly and
naturally resulting, in the ordinary course of events, from the
buyer’s breach of contract.
(3) Where there is an available market for the goods in
question, the measure of damages is, in the absence of special circumstances, showing
proximate damage of a greater
amount, the difference between
the contract price and the market or current price at the time
or times when the goods ought
to have been accepted, or, if no
time was fixed for acceptance,
then at the time of the refusal to
accept.
(4) If, while labor or expense
of material amount are necessary
on the part of the seller to enable
him to fulfill his obligations under the contract to sell or the sale,
the buyer repudiates the contract
or the sale, or notifies the seller
to proceed no further therewith,
the buyer shall be liable to the
seller for no greater damages
than the seller would have suffered if he did nothing towards
carrying out the contract or the
sale after receiving notice of the
buyer’s repudiation or countermand. The profit the seller would
have made if the contract or the
sale had been fully performed
shall be considered in estimating
such damages.
Section 65. When Seller May
Rescind Contract or Sale.—
Where the goods have not been

delivered to the buyer, and the
buyer has repudiated the contract to sell or sale, or has manifested his inability to perform his
obligations thereunder, or has
committed a material breach
thereof, the seller may totally
rescind the contract or the sale
by giving notice of his election
so to do to the buyer.
REMEDIES OF THE BUYER
Section 66. Action for Converting or Detaining Goods.—
Where the property in the goods
has passed to the buyer and the
seller wrongfully neglects or refuses to deliver the goods, the
buyer may maintain any action
allowed by law to the owner of
goods of similar kind when
wrongfully converted or withheld.
Section 67. Action for Failing
to Deliver Goods.—
(1) Where the property in the
goods has not passed to the
buyer, and the seller wrongfully
neglects or refuses to deliver the
goods, the buyer may maintain
an action against the seller for
damages for non-delivery.
(2) The measure of damages
is the loss directly and naturally
resulting in the ordinary course
of events, from the seller’s
breach of contract.
(3) ‘Where there is an available market for the goods in
question, the measure of damages, in the absence of special
circumstances showing proximate damages of a greater
amount, is the difference between the contract price and the
market or current price of the
goods at the time or times when
they ought to have been delivered, or, if no time was fixed,
then at the time of the refusal to
deliver.
Section 68. Specific Performance.—Where the seller has

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

broken a contract to deliver specific or ascertained goods, a
court having the powers of a
court of equity may, if it thinks
fit, on the application of the
buyer, by its judgment or decree
direct that the contract shall be
performed specifically, without
giving the seller the option of
retaining the goods on payment
of damages. The judgment or
decree may be unconditional, or
upon such terms and conditions
as to damages, payment of the
price and otherwise, as to the
court may seem just.
Section 69. Remedies for
Breach of Warranty.—
(1) Where there is a breach
of warranty by the seller, the
buyer may, at his election:
(a) Accept or keep the goods
and set up against the seller, the
breach of warranty by way of recoupment in diminution or extinction of the price;
(b) Accept or keep the goods
and maintain an action against
the seller for damages for the
breach of warranty;
(c) Refuse to accept the
goods, if the property therein has
not passed, and maintain an action against the seller for damages for the breach of warranty;
(d) Rescind the contract to
sell or the sale and refuse to receive the goods, or if the goods
have already been received, return them or offer to return them
to the seller and recover the price
or any part thereof which has
been paid.
(2) When the buyer has
claimed and been granted a remedy in any one of these ways, no
other remedy can thereafter be
granted.
(3) Where the goods have
been delivered to the buyer he
can not rescind the sale if he
knew of the breach of warranty
when he accepted the goods, or
if he fails to notify the seller
within a reasonable time of the
election to rescind, or if he fails
to return or to offer to return the

Section 70. Interest and Special Damages.—Nothing in this

act shall affect the right of the
buyer or the seller to recover interest or special damages in any
case where by law interest or
special damages may be recoverable, or to recover money paid
where the consideration for the
payment of it has failed.
PART VI. INTERPRETATION
Section 71. Variation of Implied Obligations.—Where any
right, duty or liability would arise
under a contract to sell or a sale
of implication of law, it may be
negatived or varied by express
agreement or by the course of
dealing between the parties, or
by custom, if the custom be such
as to bind both parties to the
contract or the sale.
Section 72. Rights May Be
Enforced by Action.—Where any
right, duty or liability is declared
by this act, it may, unless otherwise by this act provided, be enforced by action.
Section Rule for Cases Not
Provided for by This Act.—In any
case not provided for in this act,
the rules of law and equity, including the law merchant, and in
particular the rules relating to
the law of principal and agent
and to the effect of fraud, misrepresentation, duress or coercion, mistake, bankruptcy, or
other invalidating cause, shall
continue to apply to contracts to
sell and to sales of goods.
Section 74.. Interpretation
Shall Give Effect to Purpose of
Uniformity.—This act shall be so
interpreted and construed, as to
effectuate its general purpose to
make uniform the laws of those
States which enact it.
Section 75 Provisions Not
Applicable to Mortgages.—The
provisions of this act relating to
contracts to sell and to sales do

www.suspicions.com

not apply, unless so stated, to
any transaction in the form of a
contract to sell or a sale which is
intended to operate by way of
mortgage, pledge, charge, or
other security.
Section 76. Definitions.—
(1) In this act, unless the context or subject matter otherwise
requires—
“Action” includes counterclaim, set-off and suit in equity.
“Buyer” means a person who
buys or agrees to buy goods or
any legal successor in interest of
such person.
“Defendant” includes a plaintiff against whom a right of setoff or counterclaim is asserted.
“Delivery” means voluntary
transfer of possession from one
person to another.
“Divisible contract to sell or
sale” means a contract to sell or
a sale in which by its terms the
price for a portion or portions of
the goods less than the whole is
fixed or ascertainable by computation.
“Document of title to goods”
includes any bill of lading, dock
warrant, warehouse receipt or
order for the delivery of goods,
or any other document used in
the ordinary course of business
in the sale or transfer of goods,
as proof of the possession or
control of the goods, or authorizing or purporting to authorize
the possessor of the document
to transfer or receive, either by
indorsement or by delivery,
goods represented by such document.
“Fault” means wrongful act or
default.
“Fungible goods” means
goods of which any unit is from
its nature or by mercantile usage
treated as the equivalent of any
other unit.
“Future goods” means goods
to be manufactured or acquired
by the seller after the making of
the contract of sale.
“Goods” include all chattels

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

goods to the seller in substantially as good condition as they
were in at the .time the property
was transferred to the buyer. But
if deterioration or injury of the
goods is due to the breach of
warranty, such deterioration or
injury shall not prevent the buyer
from returning or offering to return the goods to the seller and
rescinding the sale.
(4) Where the buyer is entitled to rescind the sale and
elects to do so, the buyer shall
cease to be liable for the price
upon returning or offering to return the goods. If the price or any
part thereof has already been
paid, the seller shall be liable to
repay so much thereof as has
been paid, concurrently with the
return of the goods, or immediately after an offer to return the
goods in exchange for repayment of the price.
(5) Where the buyer is entitled to rescind the sale and
elects to do so, if the seller refuses to accept an offer of the
buyer to return the goods, the
buyer shall thereafter be deemed
to hold the goods as bailee for
the seller, but subject to a lien
to secure the repayment of any
portion of the price which has
been paid, and with the remedies
for the enforcement of such lien
allowed to an unpaid seller by
section 53.
(6) The measure of damages
for breach of warranty is the loss
directly and naturally resulting,
in the ordinary course of events,
from the breach of warranty.
(7) In the case of breach of
warranty of quality, such loss, in
the absence of special circumstances showing proximate damage of a greater amount, is the
difference between the value of
the goods at the time of delivery
to the buyer and the value they
would have had if they had answered to the warranty.

125

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

personal other than things in
action and money. The term includes emblements, industrial
growing crops, and things attached to or forming part of the
land which are agreed to be severed before sale or under the
contract of sale.
“Order” in sections of this act
relating to documents of title
means an order by indorsement
on the document.
“Person” includes a corporation or partnership or two or
more persons having a joint or
common interest.
“Plaintiff” includes defendant
asserting a right of set-off or
counterclaim.
“Property” means the general
property in goods, and not
merely a special property.
“Purchaser” includes mortgagee and pledgee.
“Purchases” includes taking
as a mortgagee or as a pledgee.
“Quality of goods” includes
their state or condition.
“Sale” includes a bargain and
sale as well as a sale and delivery. “Seller” means a person who
sells or agrees to sell goods, or
any legal successor in the interest of such person.

126

“Specific goods” means
goods identified and agreed
upon at the time a contract to
sell or a sale is made.
“Value” is any consideration
sufficient to support a simple contract. An antecedent or pre-existing claim, whether for money or
not, constitutes value where
goods or documents of title are
taken either in satisfaction
thereof or as security therefor.
(2) A thing is done “in good
faith” within the meaning of this
act when it is in fact done honestly, whether it be done negligently or not.
(3) A person is insolvent
within the meaning of this act
who either has ceased to pay his
debts in the ordinary course of
business or can not pay his debts
as they become due, whether he
has committed an act of bankruptcy or not, and whether he is
insolvent within the meaning of
the federal bankruptcy law or
not.
(4) Goods are in a “deliverable
state” within the meaning of this
act when they are in such a state
that the buyer would, under the
contract, be bound to take delivery of them.

Volume IV.
Business Law
Finis
Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

Section 76(a). Act does not
apply to existing sales or contracts to sell.—None of the provisions of this act shall apply to
any sale, or to any contract to
sell, made prior to the taking effect of this Act.
Section 76(b). No Repeal of
Uniform Warehouse Receipt Act
or Uniform Bills of Lading Act—
Nothing in this Act or in any repealing clause thereof shall be
construed to repeal or limit any
of the provisions of the Act to
Make Uniform the Law of Warehouse Receipts, or of the Act to
Make Uniform the Law of Bills of
Lading.
Section 77. Inconsistent Legislation Repealed.—All acts or
parts of acts inconsistent with
this act are hereby repealed except as provided in section 76b.
Section 78. Time When the
Act Takes Effect—This act shall
take effect on the
day of
one thousand nine hundred and
Section 79. Name of Act—
This act may be cited as the Uniform Sales Act.

