 the mortgage, or
he may transfer it and exact a
promise, which may be worded
in various ways, involving the
unconditional payment of the
mortgage by the purchaser of
the land or the reimbursement
of the original mortgagor if he
is compelled to pay. It is, of
course, also possible to make
the mortgagee a party to the
transaction or to leave the transaction open for him to come in
at his option and deal with the
new lender as the principal
creditor or as a surety or even
as the sole creditor with the
original mortgagor discharged.
The interpretation of the same

45

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

46

usual to demand an affidavit
renewed from time to time to the
effect that the debt is still subsisting. In many states a change
of possession at the time the
chattel mortgage is made may
serve as the equivalent of recording or filing.
There is also less likelihood
of difficulties growing out of the
title theory, because chattel
mortgages, being relatively new
and governed by statutes, are
likely to be free from the technicalities suggested by the laws
of title in real estate law. Foreclosure is usually allowed with
less formality or reliance on
court action than in the case of
real estate, but in the main the
analogies of real estate mortgage law have been followed
closely—perhaps too closely—in
the development of the concept
of the chattel mortgage.
Sale agreement. Theoretically, the conditional sale is
merely a short cut accomplishing the same end as transferring
a title to a buyer and then taking back from him a chattel
mortgage giving the seller once
more a title-hold on the goods
as security for the debt incurred
in their purchase. In practice,
however, several differences
have arisen which have required
statutory adjustment. Today a
conditional sale agreement requires filing and the other formalities of a chattel mortgage
in most jurisdictions, though, of
course, a statute speaking of a
chattel mortgage does not by
those terms include a conditional sale. The agreement is,
furthermore, likely to be ever so
much simpler than a chattel
mortgage and to leave room for
more doubts. Thus, a perfect
conditional sale is accomplished
whenever it is stipulated at the
time of the contract of sale that
title will not pass until final payment is made. A single line to
that effect, or even an oral understanding, is sufficient. The

stranger who deals with the
goods in ignorance of such an
arrangement is technically, perhaps, in a poorer position than
the stranger who deals with the
title holder in ignorance of a
chattel mortgage—for the one
acquires an unencumbered title;
the other, no title. The tendency
today, however, is to dispose of
the cases in exactly the same
way.
(e) Lease with Privilege of
Purchase. Another variation of
the mortgage idea, used both
for real estate and personal
property, is the adoption of the
form of a lease with a privilege
of purchase. Historically the
privilege of purchase in the development of this form was incidental, and the lease was exactly what it purported to be. But
when the figures are juggled so
that, after paying 5 a month as
“rental” for a piece of furniture
one eventually reaches a point
where by a final payment of 5
he can become the outright purchaser of the thing, or where the
same plan is worked out with
reference to a house, it becomes
clear that what we are actually
doing is to postpone the transfer of title until the final payment on the purchase is made.
In the case of real estate, no
great hardship is likely to result
from such an arrangement, because the title of record is a clear
enough warning to all outsiders
dealing with the tenant in possession. Still. courts have at
times found it necessary to point
out that such an arrangement is
in substance a sale coupled with
a purchase money mortgage.2
In the case of personal property,
however, the legal difficulties
are somewhat more intense. It
is hard to bring such arrangements within the terms of a statute requiring record for secret
liens. None the less, the tendency of both statutes and decisions is today to look to the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

substance of all such arrangements rather than to the form.
A somewhat similar situation
arises where goods are sold on
consignment. The motive for
making such an arrangement
may have little or nothing to do
with credit, but the scheme happens to lend itself to the needs
of a “floor plan” of financing
traders. Under it, the dealer with
the object—say, an automobilein his possession, is quite free
to pass a title to a purchaser.
The money which he receives,
however, is not his; it is the
money of his principal, who had
remained title holder to the object until the moment of its sale.
If the dealer becomes insolvent,
not only is the claim of the title
holder of the goods protected,
if this money can be traced, but
he is free to reclaim remaining
parts of his stock without sharing their value with other creditors.
(f) Trust Receipt. The socalled trust receipt represents a
distinct evolution of another
kind in the creation of title holds
on goods in the possession of a
debtor. It is possible, and at one
time was common in certain industries, to make an arrangement that is, in a technical
sense, one of trusteeship. The
manufacturer or finisher of
goods whose credit standing is
doubtful might be given raw
goods in return for a trust receipt in which he recites that he
is accepting the goods as
trustee with certain obligations
to see them through particular
processes and eventually to convert them into cash which will
take the place of the trust res
and as to which he will render
an accounting in the ordinary
manner of trustees. Since trust
claims are not wiped out by
bankruptcy, and trust objects
are not thrown into the general
fund of a bankrupt, and since,
moreover, the answerability of

a trustee at all stages of his work
is more marked than that of an
ordinary debtor, this arrangement, while not entirely knaveproof, has proved to be quite
satisfactory. In its later modifications, however, it has ceased
to be true trusteeship and has,
rather, created a situation in
which the processor of goods
becomes a mere bailee to whom
no title passes at any time. In
other words, the arrangement
becomes more like consignment
to which is added an obligation
to do some work on the goods
besides selling them, and it culminates not in the holding of
money as a trust res but in the
somewhat similar situation of an
agent accountable to a principal.

3. Negotiable Instruments
We have already had many
occasions to allude to negotiable instruments of various
kinds. Negotiability is one of the
bases on which we founded a
concession of the legal ideal of
security of rights in favor of the
business ideal of security of
transactions. We have seen how
the idea of negotiability has
been copied from bills of exchange and promissory notes
and has been extended to other
types of commercial documents:
bonds, stock certificates, bills of
lading, warehouse receipts, miscellaneous documents of title.
We have noted the convenience
of the form of negotiable instruments for use in creating suretyship, guaranty and other
credit combinations. A brief

www.suspicions.com

summary of the substantive law
covering these very important
business documents will conclude our chapter on legal devices for safeguarding and facilitating credit.
(1) PROMISSORY NOTES. A
promissory note is in form one
side of a contract: the agreement to pay. In Blackstone’s day,
by virtue of its form it received
the special recognition of the
law, even as between the parties, that it is accorded on the
Continent of Europe today. The
bargain which it represented did
not have to be established by
the ordinary Law of Contract,
including such doctrines as
“consideration.” The nineteenth
century, however, in England
and America, assimilated the law
of promissory notes to that of
ordinary contract, so that today
theoretically between the original parties there is no difference
between a contractual promise
evidenced by a promissory note
and any other contractual promise. The only compromise in the
situation is that the form of such
document raises a presumption
that there has been a consideration, but this presumption is
rebuttable. In like manner, the
ordinary Law of Contract has
become applicable, so far as
immediate parties are concerned, in the type of instrument
known as a bill of exchange, or
in commercial parlance as a
“draft,” where a request is addressed to someone named in
the instrument to pay money to
another. This request is of the
nature of an offer; the payment,
or even the promise to pay, in
accordance with the tenor of the
instrument, constitutes an acceptance of the offer, and it is
understood that there is an obligation on the part of the person making the request to reimburse the person honoring
the request.
If these documents are made

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(g) Mechanic’s Lien. There
remains to be considered a
statutory device of prime importance in the building industries.
The so-called mechanic’s lien
had its chief impetus, if not its
origin, in America a century ago
in an effort to protect the interests of the laborer. It has met
and overcome several difficulties, however, in the problems
of contractors, subcontractors,
and materialmen as well as laborers, by giving them all a direct claim against the property
on which they work or into which
their materials go, instead of
limiting them to personal actions against those with whom
they have dealt directly. It has,
furthermore, given them the
equivalent of a shorthand mortgage on the property acquired
by merely filing in the proper
public office an affidavit or a
notice of claim. For practical
purposes this is a cloud on title
which the property holder must
remove by settling the account
or forcing a test of the claim in
court. As a purely statutory creation which varies in various
places and is amended in each
from time to time, it is the victim of much judicial interpreta-

tion which has frequently been
overly technical. Its law is consequently full of pitfalls for owners, purchasers, and lien claimants, particularly where the statute gives even a short retroactive effect to the act of filing the
notice. One example will suffice
to warn of the treacherous nature of these liens. Where a statute permitted the filing of a lien
within so many months after the
work was “finished,” an unpaid
subcontractor long after the period expired took advantage of
a property owner’s complaint
about some of his work. He admitted that it was not “finished”
and after putting a very little
“finishing” work on it filed his
lien for the whole of his claim,
and the courts upheld him. In
the main it may be said that the
working of the mechanics’ lien
laws has been of tremendous
advantage in smoothing the
path of the contractor and insuring substantial justice to all concerned in the actual process of
building. Similar statutes have
been extended here and there
to mine work and to ship building.

47

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

out in the special form that has
developed in business history
and that is now almost universally covered by statute, the
document
becomes
negotiable—that is to say, transferable and capable, while being
properly transferred, of clearing
away many of the defects or limitations that may have impaired
its value as between the original parties. Where a negotiable
instrument is negotiated, we
have an illustration of a party
selling a better title to a thing
than that which he himself possessed.
The marks of negotiability,
laid down by the statute, are:
“An instrument to be negotiable must conform to the following requirements: (1) It must
be in writing and signed by the
maker or drawer; (2) must contain an unconditional promise or
order to pay a certain sum in
money; (3) must be payable on
demand, or at a fixed or determinable future time; (4) must be
payable to order or to bearer;
and, (5) where the instrument is
addressed to a drawee, he must
be named or otherwise indicated
therein with reasonable certainty.”3

48

The process of negotiation
depends on whether the paper
is at any moment in a state payable to bearer or payable only
to the order of a specific person.
The endorsement in blank has
the effect of making the document payable to bearer—so has
the writing in of the word
“bearer” or any other word
clearly not intended to be the
name of a specific person in the
original document. In such
cases, the document is negotiable by delivery. If, however,
the document is payable to a
specific person, that person’s
endorsement is necessary to
accompany delivery for the purpose of negotiations. Furthermore, to constitute negotiation,

the transfer must be in ordinary
course of business—that is, it
must be made before the maturity of the document, for value,
and to a person who has no actual notice of any defects, counter-claims or equities that would
serve as partial or complete defenses for the person primarily
liable on the paper.
When such negotiation is
completed, all possible defenses
are by no means cut off. There
are so-called real defenses which
constitute a risk even for the
buyer of a document who becomes a holder in due course.
These are principally of two
kinds: those that amount to (1)
forgery and (2) those which particular statutes as parts of the
public policy of a state set up
as final. A defense is equivalent
to (1) forgery in the sense in
which the term is used here, (a)
not merely where the signature
of the person sought to be held
has been written in by another
without his consent, but also (b)
where the document in its
present form was made up over
a genuine signature4 or (c) where
a document that had never been
completed or delivered had been
filled out and delivered and thus
made into a negotiable instrument by the misuse of a genuine signature. (2) Instances in
which a statute sets up a final
defense are those which go to
the capacity of the party to make
a contract and in some jurisdictions gambling contracts.
Most defenses are considered purely personal—that is,
they apply only between immediate parties and cannot be utilized against the holder in due
course or anyone claiming title
under him. Thus, if the document was acquired by fraud not
amounting to forgery, or if it is
found that there was no consideration for the contract, or if the
maker of the document had a
counter-claim against the person to whom he had given it, or

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

if the delivery had been incomplete or only conditional, the
defense is not available after
negotiation.
Negotiable instruments
speak a shorthand language.
When one writes his name on
the back of such a paper he is
actually signing many legal
documents. Thus, (1) there is a
receipt acknowledging the payment to him by the next holder
of the amount of money recited
in the document; (2) there is
an assignment or transfer of the
document to the next holder,
whether this was necessary for
the negotiation or not; (3) there
are certain warranties enumerated in the statute, in general
to the effect that the document
is genuine and what it purports
to be; (4) there is a series of conditional guaranties—that is,
promises to pay if the person
primarily liable fails to do so and
the necessary legal steps are
taken properly to record that
fact and promptly to notify the
endorser.
(2) CHECKS. Checks are a
variety of draft or bill of exchange. They are drawn upon a
bank by a depositor who has
presumably left funds with the
bank in advance, or made some
other arrangement under which
the bank honors his demand.
They do not recite any particular time at which the demand is
to be made or at which payment
is expected, but by custom it is
understood that they are to be
presented forthwith in the ordinary course of business and
that, while a reasonable time is
allowed for each endorsement,
it is negligent on the part of a
holder to delay for more than
one business day the presentation of his check to a bank. For
this reason he may find that the
failure of the bank during the
course of his delay may fall upon
him.
In one respect checks are

assimilated to notes rather than
to drafts. In the case of an ordinary draft the man who signs his
name in the lower right-hand
corner, the drawer, is not the
person primarily or absolutely
liable on the document. If the
document is accepted—in the
case of a check this process is
called “certification”—the acceptor is the one primarily liable,
and his position corresponds to
that of the maker whose name
is signed at the end of a promissory note. The drawer, unlike
the maker, is liable conditionally
very much as the endorser is,
and is entitled to notice in case

of default on the part of the person primarily liable or even dishonor of the document by nonacceptance on the part of the
person to whom the document
is addressed. In other words, the
drawer of an ordinary draft may
under certain conditions be discharged of all liability. In the
case of the drawer of a check,
however, his discharge is limited
only to the amount by which his
position is prejudiced through
a delay. For the rest, he remains
absolutely liable precisely as if
he had been the maker of a note
instead of the drawer of a bill of
exchange.

1

Uniform Sales Act, Sec. 27.

2

Harkness v. Russell & Co.,
118 U.S. 663 (1886).
3

Negotiable Instruments Law,
Sec. 1, p. 219.
4

Commerce Securities Corp.
v. Hays, 60 S.W.(2d) 335 (1933):
Where signature to note in blank
is procured by fraudulent representations and is thereafter,
without maker’s consent, filled in
as to payee, amount, and date of
maturity, alterations amount to
forgery, rendering instrument
unenforceable, even in hands of
holder in due course, on proof
that maker was not negligent.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

49

Chapter VIII

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Desiderata

50

If we think of organization as
division of function coupled with
unification of design, we may
apply the term in business not
only to the internal structure of
a unit but also to the normal relations of that unit with other
units. When we think of this
larger aspect of business organization, we can hardly be satisfied with a lawyer’s list made up
of corporations, various types of
partnerships, agency, and the
business trust. On the contrary,
we must think of all elements
that are needed for the successful operation of a business unit
(the labor, the enterprise, the
capital, the land) and how they
are brought together. Or, in
terms of human relationships, we
must think of the persons who
furnish these elements and of
the basis for expecting them to
be forthcoming as they are
needed in accordance with the
plan. The vast variety of the plans
that make up modern business
organization calls not only for
reshaping the recognized legal
devices for organization, but for
drawing in from time to time various types of agreements that
may never before have been
thought of as devices for organization—for example, leases,
mortgages, trade acceptances,

standing offers, comprehensive
sales agreements, letters of
credit, and a vast variety of nameless contracts.
1. Motives of Unification
From the executive’s point of
view, the particular legal form
used for the expression and enforcement of his plan is not
nearly so important as are such
practical questions as the degree
of centralization of authority and
responsibility within his unit and
in relation to other units, and the
closeness with which units are
related, ranging from complete
merger on one hand to the merest touch-and-go relation at the
other. He is, furthermore, interested in certain aspects of organization that seem desirable
from his point of view, such as
plasticity, presence of control,
absence of responsibility, and
speed, cheapness, and simplicity in the making, maintaining,
and enforcing of the relations
involved in his organization.
Let us view these executive
problems from the point of view
of a manufacturer of automobiles. The parts which he assembles may be purchased from
a manufacturer of such parts on
a hand-to-mouth basis as he
needs them. Suppose, however,

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

he desires a closer contact with
the source of his supply. He can,
of course, make more comprehensive agreements to purchase by the season or even to
purchase the entire product of a
plant. He may insert peculiar
clauses in his contracts of purchase, if he has the power, which
will give him the control that he
desires. Besides the mere detailing of specifications for the
goods, he may bargain for the
presence of his own inspectors
or other employees while the raw
materials are being produced.
His motives in seeking a closer
contact with the source of supply may be various. He may have
encountered a situation in the
market of dangerously fluctuating prices or of an inadequate
supply from time to time, or it
may be that he fears latent defects in raw materials, the presence of which cannot be detected
until serious damage is done. Or
it may simply be to win for himself the profits which he suspects
have been large in the basic industries on which he relies. It
may even be that he is in search
of a place for investing his surplus. Whatever the motive, we
may readily imagine him reaching back further and further until he owns not only lumber yards

2. Motives of Isolation
We have spoken of the motives for unification. We must not
overlook the possible motives for
isolation of the various parts of
an enterprise. Turning again to
the automobile industry, let us
recall the early stages when the
manufacturer undertook quite
incidentally to sell a few cars that

he produced, without any separate selling organization. The
market at this time was quite limited and those who purchased
cars did so very much on their
own initiative and thought of
themselves as having something
built to their order. The customers were recruited from among
the wealthy, and there was no
problem of financing purchases.
In course of time all this was
changed. The scale of production
increased rapidly and, although
the cost per car decreased, the
investment in the manufacturing
of cars became so great and the
work of selling so specialized
that a cleavage developed between the manufacturing and the
marketing of automobiles. The
burden of financing cars up to
their final sale was variously adjusted between the manufacturing and the marketing organizations. Eventually, the problem of
financing the ultimate purchaser
came up and had to be faced by
manufacturer and marketing organization alike, with the result
that financing schemes more or
less directly fostered by the automotive industry have come into
existence.
In the several stages of development sketched here, many
fine readjustments have been
necessary in the distribution of
functions within the industry as
a whole. And as plans have progressed, the law has been called
upon to furnish organization
devices that would adequately
correspond to the division of
functions planned in every emergency. In these cases the motive for isolation has been pretty
largely the splitting of financial
burdens. There may also be discerned, however, a recognition of
different types of skill requisite
in the industrial and commercial
fields. There are also very different types of risks. In the early
stages of any manufacturing industry banks are hesitant about
making loans, and the money

www.suspicions.com

necessary for the financing of
such a project is likely to come
in on some speculative basis.
New industries very generally
suffer from this aspect of money
raising, but so long as thy are
speculative they call for types of
organization facilities that divide
risks and compensate for their
assumption in accordance with
very peculiar needs in each situation. On the distribution side,
however, the risks are not so
radically different from those of
any storekeeper who has his
wares for sale. Hence, capital can
be attracted and money borrowed to cover peaks on a much
less speculative basis. Accordingly, the isolation of the units
from each other may free one
part of the industry from risks
and burdens to which the other
party is subjected.
Other motives for isolation
range from a simple bookkeeping attempt to keep accounts
separate, to a complete diversity
of identity for such purposes as
keeping a part of an enterprise
out of a foreign state. The latter
extreme, in fact, is not uncommon today. It is quite possible
for a manufacturer of rubber
goods, for example, to sell all of
his product in bulk to another
unit, a marketing organization.
This marketing organization
crosses state lines and complies
with all local requirements,
whether of law or custom or particular business conditions.
Sometimes the separate entity of
part of an organization is desirable to keep two products separate so as to avoid “trading down”
or confusion in the mind of the
public. A dealer in medium- to
high-grade goods, for example,
might suffer in the estimation of
the public if under his name
there also was operated an establishment in which a lower
grade of goods prevailed. There
is not necessarily any misrepresentation to the public in concealing the relationship between

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

and saw mills but forests, not
only factories for the manufacture of metal parts but steel mills
and refining plants, mines, railroads, and steamship lines.
The reaching out may go forward in the other direction. The
manufacturer may acquire closer
and closer relations with the distributing and retailing end of his
business. His motives here may
be to control the conditions of
ultimate sale of his product. On
the other hand, while cultivating
a complete vertical organization
on the manufacturing end, he
may avoid the expense and risks
of marketing because for one
reason or another he may not
feel the need of controlling conditions of the market.
We have moved in two directions of the vertical development
of a unit, beginning with the
manufacturer as the center. Of
course, in the actual history of a
business we may find the retailer
occupying this central position
and working backward by acquiring the wholesale distributing
organization, or eliminating that
and acquiring the manufacturing
plant and more or less of the
structures that lie behind it. For
present purposes the principle is
the same. It is for the executives
to decide, so far as in their power
lies, how closely knit a relationship shall exist among the units
that constitute in a broad sense
the business organization of
which they are a part. It is for the
law to furnish a variety of organization devices that will delicately respond by giving exactly
the degree of unification desired.

51

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

52

two establishments by their independent organization. In fact,
such separate organization may
be one means of protecting the
public from the confusion and interchange of goods. But the line
that divides the genuine independent from the bogus independent is at times rather hard
to draw. It may happen, for example, that the New Englander
purchasing a cotton mill in the
South finds it advisable, in general, to maintain that cotton mill
as a unit distinct from his New
England interests. He may
thereby retain the local goodwill
connected with the newly acquired plant and he may avoid
jeopardizing goodwill in the
neighborhood of his original operations. It is conceivable, however, that a point may be
reached, in dealing with a local
prejudice or fear in either vicinity, in which the concealment of
the relations between the plants
takes on an active form. An extreme situation was reached in
the World War when questions
arose as to the interest of alien
enemies in American corporations. In other words, whatever
device may be found to have use
in keeping related business enterprises apart may also be subject to abuse.
The mere element of size
may, from a practical business
point of view, determine the desirability of merging or keeping
apart two related enterprises. It
has been said by the courts that
mere size unaccompanied by
unlawful acts is not a basis for
prosecution or other objection
under the anti-trust laws. Nevertheless, size, or rather the
proportionate place occupied by
a business within its field, may
be the most telling evidence in a
trust prosecution. But quite apart
from the legal implications, there
are reasons to believe that, in
particular types of industries
under particular sets of conditions, there is a most advanta-

geous size of unit, below which
there is experienced with growth
an increasing return and above
which there is experienced a
diminishing return. This optimum size must be determined in
the present state of business
study quite empirically. Eventually, principles may be discovered on the basis of which the
optimum unit may be related to
technique of management, to
local spread, to the state of the
arts involved, or to other more
or less measurable differences in
businesses. Legal limitations
may, of course, be found pertinent elements whenever such an
analysis is undertaken, and
whenever standards are discovered, either empirically or scientifically, the adjustment of units
resulting therefrom may call for
a bringing together of parts of
the business and a deliberate
separation of other parts
through the aid of legal devices
of organization.
3. Endurance
of a Business Organization
The question of duration in
business organization has undergone in recent generations a
series of kaleidoscopic changes.
Permanence, or the endurance of
a business beyond the life of its
founder, has frequently been
achieved in less dynamic environments than our own through the
handing down of business units
from father to son. In this country there are very few businesses
that have remained in that way
in a single family for three or
more generations. But a different type of endurance has been
sought and achieved through the
use of the newer types of legal
framework for organization, such
as the corporation. It is rather
curious to contemplate the headlong plunge that we have taken
from types of business organization measured by the active life
of an individual, into a type presumed to be perpetual. Statistics

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

are not yet available to show the
actual expectancy of life of business corporations, and even if
the statistics were available it
would not necessarily follow that
the corporations organized fifty
years ago for the operation of
street cars, for carriage making,
or for banking, were engaged in
the same types of activities today as those for which they had
been founded. And in view of the
power of the state to alter,
amend, or repeal the charters
and its actual use of this power
by changing the general law of
corporations which constitutes
the charters of today, it is sometimes doubtful whether the entity called the X Corporation today can fairly be identified with
the thing that bore its name and
preceded it. Some states, it is
true, make it possible to organize
a corporation for a limited period
or for a temporary purpose, and
some even set a limit to the possible duration of a corporation
engaged in a particular enterprise. It is even possible that the
psychological effect of the corporate form in making men build
for the future and plan for the
long-run has been great. But, in
general, the business world gives
little attention to the question of
duration at the time of making
its major plans of organization.
This attitude may be traceable
either to a careless disregard of
the future and a feeling that so
long as the venture pays it will
continue, or it may involve a tacit
assumption of building for the
future. No doubt there are instances of both types. The form
of organization to which one
man thoughtfully turns in order
to make the life of his business
independent of his own term of
years may be the very same form
to which another turns because
a scheme in which he is interested is a venture to which he
does not care to be attached too
definitely or closely.
We have mentioned other

aspects of an organization device
that, from the point of view of
the planner, seem desirable.
Which of these desirable traits,
if any, are of outstanding importance in any particular enterprise
is, of course, a business question
calling for the highest executive
ability. Once this question is determined, however, it is for the
lawyer rather than the executive
to select and adapt that legal
device for organization which
best serves the important ends,
even if some of the minor ends
must be poorly served. Thus,
speed, cheapness, and simplicity in the making, maintaining,
and enforcing of the relations
constituting the organization
may have to be sacrificed to
achieve or maintain plasticity.
Power of control must be generally weighed against freedom
from responsibility for the mistakes or missteps of those who
serve the organization.

www.suspicions.com

secret instructions of the principal, varying the authority of the
agent in a particular transaction
from the ordinary understanding
in such situations, will be ineffective so far as the innocent
stranger is concerned.
5. Problems of Organization
On the whole, the desirability of an organization device
must, therefore, be judged by a
process of weighing the importance of its good and bad features in view of a particular set
of circumstances, and the relative weight to be given to these
features is, in the long run, the
problem of the executive rather
than of the lawyer. A series of
such cases will demonstrate the
nature of the co-operation between the lawyer and the executive in the use of the facilities of
the law for organization.
(1) Let us first consider the
problem of policy in the employment of men in various parts of
an organization.1 Is it desirable,
for example, in the employment
of salesmen to utilize a uniform
standardized contract to be
signed on the dotted line, or is it
preferable to deal with each man
individually and attempt to frame
his contract in accordance with
the individual features of his
case? A discussion of the relative
merits of the standardized and
individual contract as an instrument of organization involves, of
course, the broader question of
the standardization of legal devices for various other business
purposes, such as sales, warehouse receipts, or bills of lading.
But confining ourselves to those
features most clearly affecting
the problem before us, we may
safely venture the opinion that
those who use a standardized
form for their salesmen are
moved to do so by the consideration of the saving of time,
trouble, and expense, when they
compare the task of sitting down

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

4. Methods of Organization
Disregarding at this stage
the details of law involved in the
use of particular devices for organization, we may classify all
the methods that the lawyer offers to the executive for the solution of his nice problem of adjustment as coming under one
of two heads: (1) contract, and
(2) the creation of special status.
Generally speaking, the effecting
of a division of function coupled
with unification of design by contract furnishes far more room for
play, more plasticity, than does
the adoption of a ready-made
status with all of its incidents laid
down in the law. On the other
hand, status, as illustrated, for
example, by an instance where
an organization is effected
through the acceptance of a corporate charter from the state,
has all the advantages of standardization: thus, hundreds of
details as to the relations between stockholders and directors, between stockholders and

the public, between directors and
the public, between directors and
the company, and so on, are
taken care of without the need
of any specifications of particulars.
When we come to examine,
however, the various types of
contract and status relations, we
shall find that there is a gradation from the most individualized
to the most standardized of arrangements. Contracts, for example, may be subdivided so as
to include contracts without special names, the purport of which
is simply: “You do this and I shall
do that.” Some of these unnamed
contracts have become more or
less standardized as they have
been found useful in business on
repeated occasions. They lead
gradually into the class of named
contracts: contracts of sale, for
example, leases, employment
contracts, the contracts involved
in a negotiable instrument, mortgages, guaranty, suretyship, insurance, and so on. Some of
these, indeed, are more highly
standardized than others. The
status relations may also be subdivided so as to include, in the
first place, those somewhat akin
to the contract principle in that,
at least as between the parties,
they are subject to extensive
variations. Thus, the relations
between principal and agent or
between the members of a partnership are far more subject to
individual variation than are the
relations of parties in a corporation; but even within the
corporation the particular rights
of holders of special types of
stock may be made to vary in
accordance with the terms of bylaws or particular contracts. What
distinguishes all these status
relations, however, from the
purely contractual relations is
that the outside world is free to
assume that the status relations
are typical rather than individual
and to act accordingly. Where we
have agency, for example, the

53

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

54

with each man separately and
talking over his terms with the
infinitely lazier process of copying the contract worked out for
A when B comes in. Of course,
the force of these considerations
is increased when the number of
those affected is large and when
their functions are fairly similar.
The relative advantage of the
process of dealing with all comers alike is enhanced by the tendency it has to break down “sales
resistance.” The very fact that all
the employees of the house sign
the same agreement removes
doubts and vain wishes for special treatment from the mind of
the applicant. Furthermore, it is
a source of relief to both sides
to feel that the document between them is not experimental—that it has been worked under and tested, perhaps interpreted authentically, and that it
has taken its present form as a
result of the experience of others. Many a business man would
prefer to make a clear concession
of a point rather than to buy his
way into a law suit.
After the contract of employment is made, it does, of course,
simplify business administration
to be able to give uniform instructions to the clerical force as
to the treatment of all persons
in a class, instead of being compelled to go over with them independently the manner of recording and checking the transactions of each man in the group
separately. It is easier, too, to
make strangers with whom one
deals understand and respect
the stipulations as to the authority vested in one’s sales force
or in some other group of employees than it would be if the
impression once got out that
every one of the group had a law
unto himself.
What, then, are the disadvantages of the standardized
salesman’s contract? These generally appear, in the first instance
when we consider the matter

from the point of view of the
salesman rather than of the organization, and it is chiefly when
his point of view is respected
because of his individual importance to the concern that a halt
is called to the process. In the
first place, there is something
deadening about the conception
that makes a man a part of a
machine and obscures the individual aspects of his function.
Such aspects may arise from the
differences in advantage and
experience on the part of the
men, from differences in the territory or branch of the trade that
they visit, from differences in.
their personal goodwill or control over customers. To force two
sets of business relationships
into the same legal mold, when,
as a matter of fact, they are different, may superficially solve the
difficulty, but it is likely to create greater difficulties in the end.
It may involve, in the first place,
reducing the legal formula to a
mere form that will not be respected by either party in his
practical interpretation from the
very beginning. On the other
hand, it may result in constant
friction because somebody
somewhere in the organization
insists on taking the legal document too literally. Such a uniform
scheme of things is pretty irksome when it becomes necessary
rapidly to turn a corner in business or to deal with a particular
territory or branch of a business,
in view of an emergency, in some
unforeseen way. For at this point
the original selling argument
that all employees are treated
alike is seen to carry with it, more
or less inarticulately, the corollary that all will continue to be
dealt with alike. In fact, the impersonal standardized system of
dealing with men too frequently
carries with it automatic scales
of increase and rules of promotion that paralyze the hand of the
executive.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

(2) A frequent problem of organization encountered in the
course of the expansion of a
business comes down to the
question: Shall we buy the assets
or the stock of the corporation
whose business we are taking
over? 2 We have already discussed some of the considerations involved here, namely, the
comparative desirability of making a unit of the new organization and of keeping the parts of
the resulting organization intact,
separate though related. The
use, and indeed the abuse of the
subsidiary corporation for the
purposes outlined is one of the
most remarkable developments
in the use of legal devices in business of the last generation. A
glance at such manuals as Poor’s
and Moody’s will show the extent
to which operating companies
have become, in part, holding
companies and pure holding
companies have been superimposed on operating companies.
In fact, the controlled company
itself controls others, so that a
pyramid similar to that of feudal
times may be imposed on the
visible, active business, the “tenant paravail.”3 Among the specific factors in the problem of
buying assets or stock must be
considered the relative cost of
control. Where stock is purchased, only a majority of the
voting power need be acquired.
For the rest, the old financing,
whatever it may have been,
serves its purpose without necessarily involving the new corporation in the work of raising funds,
or the responsibility of underwriting. But with this decreased
cost, it must be remembered,
there goes a decreased degree
of control. The controlling company is by no means free to transfer to itself such parts of the business of the controlled company
as it can take over most profitably. The minority stockholders
can insist on the maintenance of
the status quo between the two

(3) A very common business
problem that assumes constantly
changing form is whether to incorporate. A great deal of literature has been scattered by officials and more or less interested
private institutions setting forth
in glowing terms the advantages

of incorporation. In general,
these are two: (a) the limitation
of liability upon the part of the
investor, and (b) the standardization of the resulting relations.
Each of these may be subdivided
and elaborated in various ways.
Thus, (a) the limitation of liability is not merely the personal assurance that one will not be liable for the debts of the corporation at all or beyond a certain
point in case of insolvency; it includes the freedom from the risk
of being bound by the activities
or representations of associates
not duly authorized to represent
the organization. It includes, further, the assurance that even the
duly authorized officers cannot
go beyond very definite limits set
out in the articles of incorporation and the charter or the general laws under which the company is organized. (b) Standardization, in this case, includes
a fairly definite understanding as
to the rights and liabilities of
stockholders, some of which no
doubt cannot be modified effectively even by special contract.
But it must not be assumed
that these advantages are in any
sense absolute. There are, first
of all, legal limitations to the
types of business that a corporation may be engaged in. For
example, in most states, a corporation is not permitted to engage in such a profession as the
practice of law or the practice of
medicine. Furthermore, there are
definite laws preventing corporations organized for one set of
purposes from engaging in certain other activities. Department
stores have, for example, found
to their chagrin that they are not
only effectively barred in some
states from opening dental departments, but also that they
must not engage in insurance or
banking or various public utility
enterprises. The growth of licensing laws has extended the field
closed to the corporation, because licenses are in general

www.suspicions.com

purely personal. Sometimes attempts are made to use the idea
of licensing deliberately to check
the use of the corporate form.4
(b) With regard to standardization, we have already indicated in another connection
that there are situations in which
it is important to have a handmade, specially ordered device
rather than the standardized
forms that meet approximately
the conditions of all business,
but only approximately. In other
words, the corporation is not so
plastic as the partnership or the
business trust or the business
conducted under individual ownership. In like manner, the desirability of limited liability is questionable at times. It may simply
mean that the men responsible
for a corporate undertaking are
called upon for personal indorsement of the corporation’s debts.
There are also businesses bordering on professions, such as
that of the investment banker, in
which a distinct loss of prestige
might result from incorporation.
There are, too, numerous undertakings in which the heavy
mechanism of a corporation is,
to say the least, cumbersome. It
may involve for a very small business an expense, a degree of
publicity, an opening to attack
by one who casually or deliberately comes into possession of a
share of stock, a complicated and
perhaps costly tax situation, a
keeping of minutes, and the rigmarole of elections, which at best
are a nuisance and at worst a
stumbling block, for there is always danger that the omission
of routine will invalidate important acts.
(4) The problem whether to
organize the retailing branch of
one’s business as an agency in
the technical legal sense of the
term, or by constituting the distributors “independents” or such
semi-independents as del cred-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

corporations, and however limited we may find the ultimate
powers of the minority, among
these powers we shall find a destruction of the plasticity of an
organization.
There is a curious condition
in the Federal statute law pertaining to combinations in restraint
of trade that has no doubt driven
many businesses to avoid the
purchase of stock and prefer the
method of purchasing assets in
effecting any combination with
a competitive concern. In Section
7 of the Clayton Act (1914) one
of the objectionable methods
enumerated and made unlawful,
even if only tending “to substantially lessen competition” or to
“create a monopoly in any line of
commerce,” is the acquisition,
directly or indirectly, of the whole
or any part of the stock or share
capital of another corporation. In
the absence of this or any of the
other specially enumerated objectionable methods of creating
a monopoly, one would have to
allege a great deal more to bring
the case under the Sherman AntiTrust Act. One would have to
show that there had been effected a monopoly, or that there
had been what the law calls an
attempt to monopolize, or a conspiracy to monopolize, a part of
interstate commerce. The “attempt” or “conspiracy” or success
in monopolization is so different
in the eyes of the law from the
mere tendency described in the
Clayton Act, that there are no
doubt instances in which it is
safe to buy the assets of a competing concern, though it may
not be so to purchase any part
of its stock.

55

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

56

ere agents, or by the use of subsidiary corporations is, of course,
primarily a problem of planning
in which the legal possibilities
must be studied rather carefully.
Of course, for many undertakings the problem is solved by the
nature of the commodity, almost
regardless of the legal disadvantages involved. It would be impractical, for example, to sell
goods that are looked for in a
grocery store or a dry goods
store, and that altogether make
up a small part of the stock of
such stores, through local
branches employing agents in
every part of the country. Furthermore, a business must be
quite large in order to make the
establishment of local branches
pay, and it must be financially
very strong to make such a venture at all possible. Few publishers, indeed, could do what the
Curtis Publishing Company did
when it converted over 450
wholesale dealers into local
agents.5
On the other hand, it may be
the very weakness of a manufacturer that forces him to deal
through local agents rather than
through independents. This is
illustrated in the automobile industry where a factory branch in
an Eastern community is likely to
be the result of a defeat in the
effort of the manufacturer to find
a local distributor willing and
able to bear the financial burden
of handling his car as an independent dealer. A shoe manufacturer who is not primarily engaged in the retailing of shoes
may find himself confronted with
the necessity of maintaining a
chain of retail stores as an outlet for his product, or even if the
major part of his product is sold
through independents he may
find that, in order to gain an entrance into a particular territory,
he must finance in whole or in
part the venture of opening a
store there.
But between these two lim-

its of compulsion and free choice
there are many cases in which
the problem of how to organize
one’s distribution is one of the
most difficult that confronts the
executive. A rubber manufacturer, when asked why his house
dealt so largely with retailers instead of jobbers, replied that in
the early days of his venture his
competitors were so much stronger than he was that they could
easily have demolished him in a
market consisting of a half a
dozen or a dozen jobbers, but
that with several thousand small
accounts on his books he felt far
safer; or, as he graphically put
it, “They had plenty of ammunition for bears, but nothing to
hunt chipmunks with.” Manufacturers sometimes look with
covetous eyes at the profits
made by the jobbers and adopt
a policy of selling directly to the
retailers. In many cases they
learn a good deal in the process
of the experiment and sometimes they find that the cost of
distributing directly is greater
than it would be through the jobber. Frequently they find that the
skill with which they are able to
manufacture effectively is of a
very different kind from that
which is required for effective
distribution.6
With these phases of the
problem the law is, of course, not
directly concerned. Once the decision is reached by the executive as to the degree of independence to be accorded to the local distributor, the lawyer can
easily find a way of crystallizing
the organization so as to meet
the plan. But the plan itself is
likely to change in the course of
consultation with the lawyer, by
reason of the information he is
able to give as to the limited control that accompanies the limited
responsibility of dealing with independent distributors. The dictation of policies, of what shall
be sold or shall not be sold in
company with particular goods,

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

is cut off. On the other hand, if
increased control is desired, the
lawyer’s information as to the
increased responsibility involved
may cause the executive to go
back from the conference with a
very nice problem in the choice
of evils. One cannot shake off his
responsibility for the acts of his
“agent,” nor can he even limit the
authority of the agent effectively,
so far as outsiders are concerned, by anything that the lawyer can draw up in his office.
(5) We come next to the
problem of superorganization.
The legal limitations that make
it difficult and occasionally illegal to co-operate with one’s competitors, though involved in every problem of co-operation, can
best be treated in another chapter—that dealing with the maintenance of competition as a market prerequisite. There are, however, certain undisputed fields in
which unrelated businesses and
even competing businesses may
co-operate. In the first place, the
anti-trust laws make certain specific exemptions, such as labor
organizations and farmers’ cooperative organizations. Again,
although the boundaries have
not yet been clearly marked out
by the courts, it is definitely conceded today that there is an important field within which trade
associations may facilitate cooperation. 7 Thus, they may
gather and exchange information; they may elaborate standards and codes of ethics; they
may develop arbitration tribunals: always provided that in
such activities they do not go to
the point of directly or indirectly
eliminating competition.
There can be no doubt that
the tendency to co-operate in
various ways is increasing. In
fact, in every really difficult problem one suggestion that comes
up is co-operation with others
faced with the same problem.
Thus, in a community in which

vice bureau related to the various members of subscribers by
simple individual contracts. It
may, within its specific field, have
no powers beyond suggestion or
advice or the simple reporting of
information; or it may be vested
with the powers of an agent to
bind its constituents either with
each other or to the outside
world contractually. It may be
readily subject to dissolution at
the desire of any party, or it may
be that the very nature of its objects requires a definite duration
for its activities.
For all of these various needs
the law can supply more or less
appropriate forms. In fact, a very
interesting chapter in modern
business history is concerned
with the readiness with which the
lawyer has supplied new forms
of association as old ones were
found to be or made illegal. Thus,
when “big business” began in
this country some time after the
Civil War, it experimented for a
short time with rather simple
contracts in restraint of trade. On
discovering that contracts not to
compete were ineffective and
that slight changes in their setup failed to save them, experimentation soon turned to various types of pools. The buying
pool or the selling pool was perhaps something more than a
simple contract in restraint of
trade. It was more like the joint
adventure that competitors under ordinary conditions could
concededly engage in, where a
particular undertaking was too
big for the capital of any one of
them. But in course of time it
became clear that the pool, too,
could be looked upon as a contract in restraint of trade, and so,
being unenforceable, fell to
pieces of its own weight.
The next great experiment in
this direction, that of the 80’s,
was by avoiding contract altogether and seeking a combination through the ancient device
of trusteeship. Strictly speaking,

www.suspicions.com

trusteeship, which gave unified
ownership in the eyes of the law
to a small group, did not involve
any contract as the basis for the
elimination of competition in
business controlled by the trustees. It was not until the end of
the 80’s that the courts began
to reach the conclusion that a
trusteeship in restraint of trade
was subject to the same laws as
a contract in restraint of trade,
and the Sherman Anti-Trust Act
and the state acts drawn on the
same model removed all doubt
by declaring not only contracts
but combinations in restraint of
trade, and, in fact, monopolies
however created, illegal and void.
But the ingenuity of the organizers did not stop there.
There was no authoritative pronouncement as yet to make it
impossible to grow to the size
of a monopoly by the out-and-out
purchase of the stock of competing corporations. And so the
holding company came into existence. Another decade passed
before that, too, was ascertained
to be illegal under the sweeping
terms of the Sherman Act.
Meanwhile, experimentation
had grown up along such lines
as the interlocking directorate.
But as all of these were upon
examination found to involve the
same obnoxious element of combination in restraint of trade,
nothing seemed to remain but
the out-and-out merger by the
complete unification of associates and the obliteration of the
old framework of the corporations absorbed in the course of
the growth of a business.
Eventually that, too, was
found illegal or at least capable
of being illegal unless so managed as carefully to avoid the
obnoxious features that had
come to be understood as the
definition of monopoly. Since
1915 the emphasis has been
rather on the isolation and detection of these features than on
mere size. In one sense it may

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

several manufacturers are engaged in the same general kind
of work, all may be interested in
eliminating the “floating” of laborers from factory to factory by
coming together and adopting a
uniform policy and agreeing to
exchange labor information. In
fact, the problem frequently
reaches such proportions that no
action on the part of a single
manufacturer can cope with the
situation at all. In like manner,
wholesale or even retail dealers
may desire to exchange credit
information. No one of them may
care to risk the odium or even to
incur the expense involved in an
aggressive policy of fighting the
fraudulent debtor. For such purposes, they may wish to unite.
They may likewise have common
problems of research, problems
ranging from those of pure science, such as chemistry, down
through applied science to such
trivialities as research in the
probable effect of style changes
on the demand for particular dyestuffs. A single manufacturer
may find himself quite helpless,
in the face of competition, in any
attempt to standardize styles or
even gauges of parts of machines. Cooperation may be necessary to save whole industries
from chaos in this respect.
In all such cases, quite apart
from the question of what the law
will allow, there is the executive
question of what is desirable in
kind and in degree of association
to bring about the desired end.
Much can be accomplished by
simple goodwill in a centralized
industry. Credit information, for
example, may be exchanged by
jobbers without any preconceived plan. On the other
hand, in some situations a centralized office may be necessary,
and this office may be conducted
under the guise of an organization in which the co-operators
hold shares. It may be an unincorporated association, or it may
be an entirely independent ser-

57

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

be said that the ingenuity of the
lawyers in supplying new frameworks of association as rapidly
as the old ones were smashed by
the axe of the law has been unsuccessful. But the object of
passing these types of organization in rapid review at this point
is not by any means to test the
adequacy of the wording or the
wisdom of the anti-trust legislation: it is simply to illustrate the
types of organization at the
lawyer’s command as they have
appeared in the last generation
in efforts towards superorganization.

58

(6) In the planning of relations, business men are constantly confronted with the apportionment of risks. Writers on
economics have frequently isolated the function of bearing
risks analytically and assumed
that in some imaginary or ideal
society this function could be
borne by one type of participant
in the economic processes, a
participant whom they have generally called the “entrepreneur.”
In the actual world of business,
however, the function of the entrepreneur is blown to pieces and
scattered so widely and intricately that the process of finding the entrepreneur, sure as we
may be that he must exist, is almost hopeless. The difficulty is
exactly parallel to the task that
political writers often impose
upon themselves to isolate and
discover sovereignty in a modern state. That somebody, somewhere, somehow exercises the
functions in the modem state
that made Louis XIV a sovereign
in his state is quite true. But by
means of constitutions, written
and unwritten, those functions
have been given to groups of
people acting in various capacities and in various ways, so that
the putting together of the atomized sovereign is as hopeless as
the restoration of Humpty
Dumpty. In like manner, risk

bearing in any enterprise is today divided among its promoters, those who furnish its initial
capital, those who furnish its
current funds, its employees, its
creditors, and ‘in fact everyone
who deals with it directly or indirectly.
The process of deliberately
and consciously shifting risk is
effected by contracts of insurance. But by far the greater part
of risk adjustment is effected in
business through stipulations
rarely if ever thought of as insurance. Thus, a stipulation postponing or accelerating the passing of title in a sale carries with
it a postponement or acceleration, as the case may be, of many
of the risks ordinarily covered by
insurance. In like manner, the
difference between calling a man
an authorized “agent” and constituting him an authorized
“dealer” is essentially a difference
in the apportionment of risks.
There is a difference in the risk
assumed when one deals with a
corporation from that which
would be involved if the opposite party were charged with unlimited personal responsibility.
Warranties are essentially assumptions of risks about things
beyond the actual knowledge of
the person assuming responsibility. Every contract of employment involves either the risk of
keeping an employee and paying
him when he is not needed if the
term is definite, or a corresponding risk on the part of the employee of the loss of a job where
the term is indefinite. The significance of the last proposition as
to labor is quite frequently overlooked. Though it is often said
that the laborer risks nothing in
a venture and that the investor
is the sole entrepreneur, in truth,
the laborer who brings his family to a community, who settles
within it and becomes part of it,
and who enters into an enterprise subject to the daily risk of
losing his position, is perhaps

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

the most venturesome of all
entrepreneurs, though in his
case the risk may seem to be
adjusted rather through the silence of the contract than
through what it says.
The risk of non-sale of securities may be met by the formation of an underwriting syndicate whose members agree to
take portions of the securities
issued if they cannot be sold
through the channels prescribed
in the first instance within an
agreed period of time. The manufacturers of patterns are confronted with the question who
shall bear the risk, not only of
non-sale but of rapid obsolescence. Others who are subject to
rapid economic effects of
changes in fashions must work
out a plan either of leaving the
burden of change where it falls
or of “insuring” their distributors
or distributing agents against it.
The significance, in this connection, of hand-to-mouth buying is
worthy of study. In some industries it has involved a complete
deflection from the distributor to
the producer of the rapid
changes in value. All laws,
whether statutory or customary,
and all specific stipulations of
contracts bearing on the question “What constitutes an excuse
for non-performance of a contract?” are risk directing devices.
Contracts, for example, which
are made subject to strikes, lockouts, fires, or other unavoidable
causes of loss or delay, which
would otherwise be risks of the
person assuming the obligation
to perform, are essentially of the
nature of insurance contracts. In
a broader sense, the bankruptcy
law is virtually a device for shifting the risks of the independent
dealer to the business which furnishes his supplies or his credit.
An ever-increasing number
of these risks is being made the
subject of conscious barter in the
form of insurance contracts. A
mere enumeration of these will

suffice to indicate the importance of recent developments,
and in reading the list it must be
remembered that the possibilities have by no means as yet
been exhausted: life insurance,
accident insurance (including
many special types such as automobile insurance, boiler insurance, and the like), burglary and
theft insurance, liability, casualty, credit, cyclone, tornado,
hail, health, lightning, live stock,
marine, plate glass, rent, title,
taxation, rain, and the miscellaneous group included under
Lloyd’s insurance.

www.suspicions.com

dealings on the part of the directors than to his vote.
As the matter stands today,
there are legal facilities available
for almost any imaginable combination of ownership or control
to accompany investment, ranging from the highly protected but
otherwise weak position of the
bondholder to the strong position of self-help of the stockholder in whose hands voting
power may not only exist but
may be concentrated or rendered
doubly effective through combination in voting trusts.
(8) Miscellaneous executive
problems in the choice of legal
forms of organization have to do
with the use of the Massachusetts trust, though this is constantly being made to work more
and more like a corporation even
in those jurisdictions that do not
class it as an out-and-out partnership; with the various special
types of partnership that our
state legislatures are offering for
one type or another of business;
with the alternative of what
amounts to Federal incorporation open to banks; with the
choice of a state in which to incorporate; with the particular
scheme of capitalization and the
relation of ownership to voting
power; with the raising of capital by the sale of stocks or of
bonds. For a solution of all these
and similar questions, the lawyer is able to furnish the executive essential information as to
the nature and workings of each
of his devices. It is for the executive, however, to make the
choice.

Ü

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(7) Problems of finance in
the sense of the planning of the
financial structure of a business
likewise are embraced within “organization” as we use the term.
Of course, the law is called upon
to safeguard the interest of the
man who puts forward money to
be administered by another.
These safeguards as such we can
discuss to better purpose along
with the facilities for credit in
general. What we are concerned
with here is the degree of control or the ownership that goes
along with investment under one
scheme or an-other of organization. In the simplest forms of
organization, ownership and
control are, of course, identical.
A distinction must be drawn,
however, between partnerships,
which are really jointly owned
business ventures, and business
trusts. In the latter there is, of
course, great danger that a degree of control will be given to
the beneficial owners which will
convert them into partners in the
eyes of the law. The difference is
clear enough in extreme cases.
The partners take an active hand
in the management of their business; the beneficiaries in the
trust have no control over the
actual management of the business. There is, however, a very
difficult borderland in which ever
so slight a power of control ac-

tual or threatened is reposed in
the beneficiaries, and in these
cases courts differ as to whether
they shall be dealt with as partnerships.
In the corporate form, a wide
latitude exists in respect to the
type and degree of control to be
exercised by the investors. A distinction must be borne in mind,
however, between the legal
theory of control of stockholders’
funds and the actual practice in
large corporations. A good deal
of recent discussion of the disfranchisement in recent years of
the investor, by means of the
multiplication of the varieties of
non-voting stock, is based upon
an oversight of this divergence
between the legal theory and the
business practice of control by
stockholders. If there has been
a disfranchisement of the small
stockholder, it has by no means
been accomplished by recent
manipulations in which non-voting stock has more or less surreptitiously been substituted for
voting stock. The disfranchisement complained of has been a
growth of long duration, not very
different in its workings from the
disfranchisement of the voter in
politics who has been a victim of
party manipulation and perhaps
of his own despair of exerting
any influence through his lone
vote. The individual stockholder
has generally felt his lack of experience, lack of understanding
of the issues involved in his vote
for this or that director, and so
has relied upon the conduct of
his affairs by men who had more
at stake and who were in a better position to make an investigation. It is, of course, true that
the voting privilege not exercised
carries with it a reserve force and
perhaps even a constant threat
that was of some importance in
the business world until recently.
But gradually the individual
stockholder came to look more
and more to the law to protect
him by its requirements of fair

59

1

H. R. Tosdal, “Problems in
Sales Management,” 1925: Curtice
and Nye Company, p. 556; National Cash Register Company, p.
561.
2

H. B. Vanderblue, “Problems
in Business Economics,” 1925:
Tuttle Tire Company, p. 330; T. T.
Lane Wholesale Grocery Company,
p. 326.
3

A. A. Berle, Jr., and G. C.
Means, “The Modern Corporation
and Private Property,” New York,
1932, p. 74.
4

Curtis Publishing Company
v. Federal Trade Commission, 260
U.S. 568 (1923).
6

E. P. Learned, “Problems in
Marketing,” 1936, Chapter III.
7

See problems of employers’
associations, Harvard Business
Reports, pages 418, 437, 448,
478, 460. In Sugar Institute v.
United States, 297 U.S. 629
(1936), reporting or relaying by
sugar refiners of information as to
current or future prices, so as to
permit circulation of voluntary
price announcements by individual
refiners, according to trade usage,
was held not enjoinable as unreasonable restraint of competition.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Louis K. Liggett Co. v. Lee,
288 U.S. 517 (1932).

5

60

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

The court said: “... . Accordingly we have held that a cooperative enterprise otherwise
free from objection, which carries
with it no monopolistic menace, is
not to be condemned as an undue
restraint merely because it may
effect a change in market conditions where the change would be
in mitigation of recognized evils
and would not impair, but rather
foster, fair competitive opportunities. Appalachian Coals v. U. S.,
288 U.S. 344.... Maple Flooring
Ass’n v. U.S., 268 U.S. 563. In that
case, we decided that trade
associations which openly and
fairly gather and disseminate
information as to the cost of the
product . . . do not fall under the
interdiction of the Act”

Chapter IX

Historic Legal Materials

(1) AGENCY. The law is apt
to labor hard to discover whether

a particular situation is one to be
labeled “agency” or “independent
dealing.” Then, after determining
by the merest hair’s breadth that
the relation is agency, it launches
forth dogmatically with the consequences, which will include
absolute loyalty and fidelity and
the exclusion of activities detrimental to the principal’s interest.
If, on the other hand, it determines that, on the whole, the label of “independent dealer” is the
more fitting, it proceeds equally
unsparingly to lay down the opposite rules: the alleged principal, who is now found to be
merely a supplier, cannot even
by contract hope to prevent his
purchaser from dealing in the
products of his competitor. Likewise, however nice may be the
question whether one, who has
put money into a friend’s business and rendered other assistance from time to time, has
made himself a partner, once the
law reaches the conclusion that
he is, it is inexorable in piling on
him exactly the opposite consequences from those that would
have followed from the finding
that the same facts had made
him a creditor instead. The group
of partners who decide to incorwww.suspicions.com

porate because one feature of
the incorporation law—say, limited liability—pleases them, learn
very soon that they have simultaneously given their business
other features not so pleasing—
for example, the destruction of
the delectus personae (choice of
person) that they had previously
enjoyed. When we ask why these
combinations come in such curious bundles, we are soon turned
to history for an answer.
Before we go into the history
of the forms of organization now
in use we may pay tribute to
other schemes for the organization of business life that have
passed away, and look at still
others that are put forward as
possible substitutes for those
that we are familiar with. The socalled feudal system of the
Middle Ages in Europe was really
no single system, but a vast variety of arrangements that had
one tendency in common,
namely, to confuse what we separate as political and economic
aspects of life. Dominium was
both kinds of authority. On the
economic side this confusion, or
rather fusion, brought about the
appearance of one’s being born
to legally enforceable rights and

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

1. Devices
Used in Organization
If we turn to the law to find
ready-made answers to our demand for a finely adjusted readymade plan, giving for any purpose in hand just the required
balance of control and responsibility, of intimacy and isolation,
of risks and security, of planning
and adventure, of foreseeability
and freedom, we shall probably
be disappointed. The foundations of our legal institutions
were laid down long ago with no
thought of pleasing the modern
business man. He must pick and
choose among them and modify
and combine what he finds until
he develops a workable mechanism for putting legal force behind his business plan. If we list
the mechanisms that he uses as,
roughly, (1) contracts, including
the named and standardized varieties, (2) agency, (3) partnership, (4) corporations and (5)
trusteeship, we may profitably
contrast their several histories;
for in these histories we must
find the explanation of many of
their most serious divergencies.

61

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

62

duties in a planned economy. To
assume such a position in society if one was not born into it
required a ceremony rather than
a contract—homagium, it was
called. Eventually functions that
the feudal system did not provide for were found necessary in
society. Hence, merchants were
only loosely associated with it.
Yet the right to hold a fair was a
feudal type of right, and the Jews
and other foreigners who were
permitted to engage in business
did so either as vassals of the
king or as holders of what might
be described as quasi-feudal
charters. With the growth of cities and urban industries, another
system of business organization
was developed: the domestic system. The master was master of a
household as well as of his craft,
and to this household the apprentice became attached. The
journeyman came into the
master’s household for the working day. Until recently the law
books echoed this way of looking at business organization, by
classifying the relation of master and servant as a “domestic
relation,” though the movement
for the substitution of the shop
and factory for the home as the
place of industry and commerce
robbed this classification of its
meaning over a hundred years
ago.
(2) CONTRACT. We have already discussed in another connection the nineteenth century
reliance on the contract idea. The
field of organization was no exception. The relation of employer
and employee in particular was
regarded as contractual and subject, as such, to the quasi-constitutional principle of freedom
of contract. In the first years of
the twentieth century the relationship has been removed farther and farther from the realm
of simple contract through social
legislation that dictates duties
and liabilities for the employer,

any contract to the contrary notwithstanding. Such laws include
employers’
liability
and
workmen’s compensation laws,
the safety of working places,
sanitary conditions, holidays, the
right to organize for collective
bargaining and other purposes
and, in an increasing number of
“exceptional” situations, minimum wages and maximum
hours.
Closely related to the employment of labor and yet differing in one all-important particular, is the employment or authorization of agents. The ordinary
employee is not expected to
bring his employer into legal relations with a stranger—though
he has the power to do so
through a tort, a wrongful act
inflicting damage. The agent, on
the other hand, is employed for
the purpose of establishing contractual relations between his
principal and outsiders. The
nineteenth century books were
inclined to bring the relations
between principal and agent under the heading of contract.
Strictly speaking, no contract is
necessary to create this relation,
and whether it can be terminated
by the will of either party in violation of a contract depends on
legal principles other than contractual intent. Persons not legally capable of making contracts may, in many instances,
appoint or be-come agents.
There is no necessity of such legal prerequisites of contract as
“consideration” to make an
agency valid. Of course, it is also
true that in actual business affairs an agent is usually employed under a contract. The incidents of agency, however, so
often fly in the very face of the
actual agreement between a principal and his agent that we must
seek an explanation for them in
some other branch of the law.
The scope of an agent’s power
is not measured by his actual
authorization but by the appar-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

ent scope of his authority. Historians have traced the doctrines
of agency to slavery, to the Roman patriarchal households and
to various odd institutions in
ancient Roman and Germanic
law. The truth is that its fundamental maxim, “Qui facit per
alium facit per se,” a maxim
which sets forth the fiction of
identity between principal and
agent, has been taken from the
Canon Law of the Roman Catholic Church. That law may have
taken it from the Orient where it
was an established principle, and
it is possible that it was influenced in doing so by the theological concepts of vicarious sin
and vicarious atonement which
are logically related to it.
(3) PARTNERSHIP. The most
popular form of business organization in the nineteenth century lent itself well to the contract idea: partnership. The men
who wish to cooperate in a venture build their relation on a contract—the articles of partnership—whether written or oral.
Yet here, as in agency, they soon
find that there are many matters
beyond the control of their contract, notably their relations to
the outside world, but also in
their internal relations. From the
historian’s point of view they
were employing a form of organization that had its principal
development not in English law
but on the continent of Europe,
and there it went back not to
ancient business precedents but
to the situation of co-parceners,
members of a family (usually
daughters) who found themselves in possession of the family property with no organization
among them. The principal
proposition that the law laid
down was that any one of them
could work with any part of the
property, provided only that a
complete accounting of such voluntary stewardship would be
forthcoming to the others even-

tually. The law of partnership has
undergone much development in
the course of two thousand
years, but this broad power to act
coupled with a duty to account
afterwards is still of its essence,
and the owning of an enterprise
in common is still a workable
definition for it.

www.suspicions.com

slightly different forms for widely
divergent objects, such as the
evasion of feudal burdens, as a
substitute for or a supplement
to last wills and testaments, as a
basis for organizing charities
and dissenting churches, as an
entering wedge for freeing the
estates of married women from
their husbands’ control, and in
more recent times for many business purposes illustrated in the
daily work of the modern trust
company. Though plastic in the
extreme, it is hardly to be expected that this instrumentality
taken from the Middle Ages will
serve all new needs as they arise
without embarrassment or modification. In fact it seems that it is
the curious fate of this device to
serve as a pathfinder, to be superseded eventually by roadmakers who pay the pathfinder
the curious complement of naming the roads in his honor. This
historic formula is reflected in
each of the following familiar
terms: charitable trusts, monopolistic trusts (or simply
“trusts”), investment trusts, voting trusts, trust receipts. In each
case the purpose once accomplished by trusteeship is now
accomplished more generally by
a more specialized tool, though
the old phrase is retained. In the
case of Massachusetts trusts, or
business trusts, trusteeship still
remains discernible, though for
purposes of taxation and control
they have been made increasingly like corporations through
a series of statutory enactments.
2. Modification of
Organization Devices
All of these types of organization devices are subject to constant modification by specific
agreement. Even the position of
the stockholder may be said to
be increasingly contractual as a
result of preferences, voting restrictions, redemption clauses,
and various rules in the by-laws
regarding special majorities

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(4) CORPORATION. When we
change a partnership into a corporation we are substituting a
model of a government for that
of a family group. The origins of
both the modern corporation and
of constitutions go back to the
same kind of royal charter. There
is not much difference between
the charters on the basis of
which the American colonies
were established and those given
to such trading bodies as the
Muscovy Company or the East
India Company. Both types have
governmental and business features. They develop differently by
suppressing one or the other
groups of features. Yet the business corporation still retains its
governmental machinery of voting, officers, oaths, formality of
meetings, records, by-laws, official notices, and public reports.
This is rather heavy machinery
for a little retail store or a modest factory. Its weight sometimes
produces curious results, not the
least of which are connected with
the habit of neglecting the holding of formal meetings, the keeping of minutes, and the giving of
notices. The granting of the privilege of incorporation is still regarded as a high act of sovereignty, and although the process
of taking advantage of this act
of sovereignty has been reduced
first to the stage of accepting a
contractual offer and then to a
mere filling out of forms and paying of a fee, the necessity of carefully complying with all formal requirements, and the rigorously
standardized legal results that
follow, are reminiscent of the
origin of the corporation.

(5) TRUSTEESHIP. Another
way of bringing business capital
together into an association with
a unified front having many of
the advantages of incorporation
is by means of trusteeship. Reduced to its simplest terms, the
arrangement is a copy of what
happens when a man leaves his
business at his death to a trustee
to manage for the benefit of his
family. The members of the family in such a case have nothing
to do with the actual management and no responsibility for
the acts of the trustee. Their risk
is limited to the capital invested
in the business. The trustee, on
the other hand, is liable personally on all contracts. Yet he may
avoid such liability by specification in each contract, and
thereby produce a result quite
similar to the limited liability of
corporation law. This whole setup may be copied by the creation
of a trust among living persons.
An early impetus to experiment
with such a plan came in Massachusetts, where the general corporation law failed to provide for
corporations created for certain
purposes, particularly for dealing
in real estate. When this so-called
Massachusetts trust came into
being, we had a most striking
example of a legal device created
for one purpose and ultimately
used for purposes undreamed of
while the device was taking
shape.
The idea underlying trusteeship may be roughly expressed
as separating the legal tide from
the equitable interest, allowing
the legal title to reside in one
person or group who hold for the
benefit of another person or
group. This idea seems to have
found its way into England in the
thirteenth century as a device
whereby the Franciscan and Dominican friars were able to work
property given to them, in spite
of the restrictions of their orders
and of the law. It was used in
successive generations in

63

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

needed for special purposes,
particular rights, or limitations of
minorities. In a partnership, as
between the parties great deviation from the norm or type laid
down in the Uniform Partnership
Act is possible, subject always to
the difficulty, in the absence of
statutory authority, of effectively
bringing such deviation to the
attention of strangers so that
they may respect it. In trusteeship, by elaboration of the articles of trust and of the trust
certificate, similar deviation is
possible, provided that the certificate holders are not given
such control over the actions of
the trustees as to make them
partners in the eyes of the law.

64

3. Inter-unital Organizations
The devices that are available
for the organization of the business unit are also used for interunital organization: contract,
agency, partnership, incorporation and trusteeship. When so
used they not only require more
drastic adaptation and more skilful combination of devices, but
greater precautions against
passing the limits set by the law.
Not only must we have regard for
the anti-trust laws, but also for
the tradition of the law that declares a corporation incapable of
becoming a member of a partnership or otherwise delegating the
powers vested by the law in its
directors; also the rules of law
against restraints on alienation
of property, against perpetuities,
against the combination of certain businesses in units, against
particular uses of certain devices
(such as clogging the equity of
redemption in a mortgage). We
must also be circumspect about
the incidence of taxation in its
relation to inter-unital arrangements. The consolidation of returns may be allowed or disal-

lowed with rather curious results
when we attempt to balance certain gains against certain losses.
Recent discriminatory taxes
against chain stores have led, on
the one hand, to separate incorporation with tying contracts,
and, on the other, to the substitution of super-markets for small
links in chains. The supermarket
may itself be a composite organization with department leases
of the nature of concessions at
fairs. With infinitely expanding
business needs and a few finite
legal devices, the practical law of
business organization may well
be described as kaleidoscopic.
4. Business Man’s versus
Lawyer’s Organization
As a consequence of the
multifarious new uses to which
these limited historical materials
are put, there is frequently a
great divergence between what
might be called the business
man’s organization chart and the
lawyer’s in any given situation.
The lawyer, for example, may set
down the directors at the head
of his corporation chart. In a particular corporation, however, the
directors may be “dummies.” The
president, or treasurer, or chairman of the board, or the manager may be the real head of a
business—or the one bearing
such a title may be a mere rubber-stamp. The lawyer dogmatically sets down the stockholders
as investors and the bondholders as outsiders who lend money
to a business. It may be much
truer to business reality to set
the bondholders down in particular cases as investors. With
highly modified preferred stock,
there may even be a reason for
looking upon some stockholders
as essentially outside lenders.
Likewise, legal mortgagors may
in particular business set-ups be

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

branch managers, as in the tiedhouse arrangement familiar in
the retailing of liquor. Legal lessees may be department managers in a department store. In
bank representatives sent to
watch over a business, the law
may refuse to see anything but
ordinary directors elected by
stockholders. The climax is
reached in an equity receivership
in which nothing is called by the
same name in legal and business
parlance. The whole procedure in
business is frankly a reorganization proceeding. The law prior to
the recent amendment of the
Bankruptcy Act knew nothing of
any such proceeding—we simply
had a bill in equity under one of
its recognized grounds of jurisdiction in the course of which a
receivership was incidentally
asked for and allowed pending
the outcome. To the business
man the receivership was merely
an umbrella under which he
could proceed to negotiate for a
better organization. The court,
solemnly pretending to be unconscious of these negotiations
or the purpose of the postponements asked for, is eventually
induced to incorporate its results
in the form of a series of wholly
imaginary hearings, findings,
appraisals, sales, orders, decrees
and accountings.
To follow any legal proposition about business organization
into life’s realities may require
two kinds of learning— the
somewhat limited legal learning
about the legal devices that are
used, and the far more complicated and changing business
lore about the realities of the
situation. To a brief restatement
of the first of these, we shall devote the next chapter. To a few
aspects of the latter type of study
we shall devote our final chapter.

Chapter X

Substantive Law

1. Formation of the Relations
(1) AGENCY. Agency is
formed by authorization on the
part of the principal and acceptance of the charge by the agent.
There may or may not be a contract involved in the act of authorization. In business there
usually is, because there is a
stipulation of payment to the
agent for his services in consideration for a definite promise on
his part to do the work that is
expected of him. It is possible,

however, for persons who have
no capacity to contract, or only a
limited capacity, to appoint or
become agents. The greatest
difficulty of law arises in situations that might be called quasiagency, for they are rather cases
in which the law deals with the
parties as if agency existed than
true cases of agency. Such situations arise where one has so
acted that it would be unfair to
permit him to deny that another
has been acting as his agent; or
where no agency in fact existed
at the time of attempted action
by the so-called agent, but where
his acts were afterwards accepted and ratified by the principal. Finally, there are situations
of so-called agency by operation
of law, as where the wife is held
to be the agent of the husband
for the purchase of family necessaries. In all of these cases the
law has found it convenient to
assimilate the situation to that
of true agency based on the
simple act of authorization in
advance, which is the ordinary
basis for permitting one to act
for and in the name of another.1
(2) PARTNERSHIP. Partnership is really double or multiple
agency. In the simplest partnership, each member of a group

www.suspicions.com

authorizes all of the others to
represent him so far as the business is concerned. Here, too, the
phenomenon of quasi-partnership must be provided for where
there is no authorization but only
the misleading appearance of it.
The exchange of authorizations
and the other incidents to a partnership amount to a contract
which may be expressed in written articles of partnership covering the plans and purposes of
the undertaking, the duties of
each of the member; and their
share in the ownership and control of the business and in profits and losses. In neither agency
nor partnership is any special
authorization from the state required or any particular formality ordinarily insisted on by the
law.
There are, however, certain
special forms of partnership
which are made possible solely
by statute and which give to
some or all of the members advantages which they could not
arrogate to themselves without
the aid of a special law.2 Such
are the limited partnerships in
which one or more members
have only limited liability for the
debts of the business, and certain other special statutory partnerships in which the powers of

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Passing by the law of contracts, which bulks as large in the
work of organization as in other
branches of business law, we
have as the specific topics in substantive law for restatement in
connection with organization:
Agency, Partnership, Business
Trust, and Corporation.
We shall deal with the rules
for the formation of each of these
relations; then with their operation as to outsiders, their operation within the organization, and,
finally, their dissolution. Under
each of these headings we shall
deal first with Agency, then with
Partnership and particular varieties of partnerships, with Business Trusts and similar associations, and finally with Corporations.

65

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

66

members to bind each other are
modified after the general manner of corporations. No one can
claim the advantage of one of
these statutory partnerships unless he has complied in every
detail with the requirements of
the statute that calls them into
existence. In some cases this rule
has been so rigidly enforced that
persons have found themselves
saddled with all of the burdens
of an ordinary partnership
merely because of having overlooked some very technical point
in connection with the public
notice required by law.
Between the partnership and
the corporation stands the joint
stock company. Unlike the ordinary partnership, its ownership
is divided into large numbers of
transferable shares which permit
the ready entrance and exit of
members without the consent of
those already in the business.
Furthermore, there is more designed specialization of functions, with officers chosen and
endowed with the exclusive
power to bind the business venture in contracts. There is, however, in the absence of special
legislative authority, no provision
for limited liability in these organizations; in fact, as in the
case of the ordinary partnership,
there is no need of relying on any
special statute, such an association being purely voluntary.
(3) BUSINESS TRUST. For the
formation of the business trust3,
the essentials are the same as in
any other trust- the separation
of the legal title from what might
be called the equitable title to
property. This might be accomplished either by conveying the
legal title to A and the equitable
title to B, and by imposing
charges on A in connection with
the administration of the estate
for the benefit of B. Or it might
be accomplished by having the
holder of both titles convey either the legal title or the equi-

table interest in the property to
another. Normally, in the case of
the business trust, the owners of
the property or funds hand over
the legal title to a group of trustees and take from them a trust
receipt which recites that the
funds or properties are to be
administered for the benefit of
the numerous owners. At first
sight it might appear that no
statutory aid is necessary to accomplish this end. In many
states, however, courts have refused to recognize this type of
institution as anything but a
partnership, and recently even in
those states where the so-called
Massachusetts trust has been
recognized there has been a tendency to treat them very much
like corporations, both in the
matter of taxation4 and in the
issue of securities.5 Registration
of deeds of trust has sometimes
been required, and in general
there is a tendency to treat such
voluntary associations more and
more as if they were corporations.
(4) CORPORATION. For the
formation of the corporation, to
a greater extent than in any of
the cases recited so far, the consent of the state is necessary.
Theoretically, the state gives a
group of people a charter which
enables them to act as a body,
and the state recognizes this
body as a person separate and
distinct from the natural persons
who have organized or at any
particular time control the corporation. It can sue and be sued
in its own name, it can hold the
title to personal property or real
estate, and it can make contracts
even with its stockholders—for
before the law it has all the attributes of a person. Obviously,
in order to form a corporation
there must be, first of all, a charter granted by the state. This
ordinarily appears today in the
form of a general charter in the
statute books, addressed to all

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

persons who undertake to comply with its terms. Here, as in the
case of the special partnership,
one must be careful to comply
with these terms strictly; otherwise it may be claimed that no
corporation exists in the eyes of
the law. It is true that in the case
of defective incorporation, where
a possible charter exists and
where a bona fide attempt has
been made to come under it but
through a technicality some act
or step has been omitted, the law
will recognize for most practical
purposes the de facto corporation- subject always to the paramount power of the state to object at any moment to its continued existence. There is always
danger, however, that any particular defect in complying with
the offer contained in the general charter of the statute book
will be regarded as more than a
mere technicality and thus prevent the corporation from coming into existence either de facto
or de jure.
In general, the formation of
a corporation has been greatly
simplified by most of the states.
Thus, they furnish standardized
forms for each of the steps necessary under the statutes. Difficult questions arise, however,
particularly in the phrasing of the
purpose for which the corporation is organized. On the one
hand, the purpose must come
within the terms of the particular statute of which use is to be
made. In some states this statute differs for one or more of the
following types of organization:
railroads, public utilities, money
companies such as banks and
insurance companies, manufacturing corporations, trading corporations, and corporations not
for profit. At the same time it is
necessary to make the powers
broad enough to cover not only
the immediate needs but all of
the probable needs of the
corporation as it carries on its
business. The failure, for ex-

ample, to stipulate the power to
hold real estate may or may not
be embarrassing under particular statutes and decisions for this
or that type of corporation.

(b) Master’s Liability in Tort.
The rationale, therefore, of true
agency is simple: it is liability

(c) Distinction between
Principal’s Liability and Master’s.
The difference between the basis of the principal’s liability in
contract and the master’s liability in tort (the same person may,
of course, be both principal and
master) gives rise to this contrast: While it is, within reasonable limits, possible to avoid the
appearance of having authorized
an agent to act in a particular
way, it is by no means possible
through one’s conduct to limit
his responsibility for his
servant’s acts. On the other
hand, it is possible so to organize one’s affairs that a person
who might otherwise be a servant becomes for all legal purposes an independent contractor. The distinction between the
two is not always easy to draw.
Thus, if I hire a window cleaner
he is my servant. If I engage the
services of a window-cleaning
company, even if it is only a oneman company, my work is being
done by an independent contractor. In the one case I should be
liable to anyone hurt by the negligence of the window cleaner,

www.suspicions.com

and in the other case I should,
of course, not be responsible for
his acts. Accordingly, the courts
have laid down tests which are
helpful though by no means conclusive, such as the degree of
detailed control reserved by the
employer, the mode and basis of
payment, the general custom of
employment in connection with
particular service, and the names
by which the various steps in the
process of employment are
called.
(d) Undisclosed Principal.
Care in the matter of holding out
will not go so far as to relieve an
actual principal from liability for
the contracts made by his agent.
The law has developed a doctrine
of undisclosed principal. Such a
person may come out and claim
the contract at any time. On the
other hand, if he is discovered
he may be drawn out to bear the
burden of it. Nor is it practical
by any degree of care so to vary
the relations of a particular type
of agency as to deprive the public of the privilege of assuming
that the authority ordinarily exercised exists in any given case.
Thus, a manager of a branch
store, a traveling salesman, an
insurance agent, a real estate
agent, or an agent entrusted with
the selling of a horse, have come
in the understanding of the community to possess standardized
authorities. Where it is true, for
example, that the agent to sell a
horse presumably has the power
to warrant the horse as sound,
no amount of private instruction
of such an agent can prevent him
from so binding his principal—
regardless of the fact that in
exercising such a power he is
going way beyond his rights and
may be answerable to the principal or to others for doing so.
(2) LIABILITY IN PARTNERSHIP. In partnership, the principles that govern the liability of
employers with agents and ser-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

2. The External Relations
(1) RESPONSIBILITY
IN
AGENCY. (a) Liability of Principal
in Contract. The responsibility of
a principal on the contracts
made for him by his agent proceeds on an entirely different
principle from the liability of a
master for the wrongs done by
his servant. As to the former, the
important question is always
whether the act of the agent was
within the apparent scope of his
authority. As to the latter, the
question is whether the wrong
was inflicted in the actual course
of the employer’s business. The
reason for the difference will
readily be seen if we take the
simple case of the owner of a
truck who has a laundry route
and who pretends, with the consent of the owner of the laundry
whose name appears conspicuously on the truck, to be an employee of that laundry. Let us
assume that purporting to act as
the agent of the company this
truck owner makes an offer of
settlement to the owner of a lost
laundry bundle. Let us assume
that on the same day the same
truck owner, while negligently
driving, injures a pedestrian.
Now, while it is perfectly reasonable for the customer to argue
that he would not have entrusted
his laundry to the truck driver if
he had not been led to .believe
that the laundry was responsible,
it certainly would be foolish for
the pedestrian to argue that he
would never have exposed himself to the danger of being run
down if he had not first read the
name of the laundry company on
the wagon.

based either on actual authorization or on the creation of the
appearance of authorization. The
rationale of the master’s liability for the acts of his servant is
much more difficult to work out.
It is not giving effect to fault, for
it is no defense that the master
has exercised the highest degree
of care in the selection, instruction and warning of his servant. Historical explanations
have been sought and found,
going back to the days of slavery,
but the perpetuation of the idea
in modern law is no doubt due
to the acceptance of the casualties of business as an element
of the cost of doing business regardless of whether these casualties are brought about by the
failure of inanimate objects or
the limitations of the human
body.

67

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

68

vants are closely duplicated. The
standardization of the idea of
holding out, however, has gone
much further. Thus, in a trading
partnership it is possible to assert that the members of the firm
may bind the firm on commercial paper, and in other types of
partnership the assumption may
be indulged in that whatever is
necessary and usual in the conduct of a business is within the
scope of each partner s authority. The liability which each partner assumes in full, however, is
in the first instance a joint liability of the members of the firm. It
is necessary, therefore, in suing
a partnership to proceed against
the group, unless the ordinary
foundation is laid in law for an
excuse from including one or
more members of the group,
such as death, hopeless insolvency, or absence from the
jurisdiction. When judgment is
rendered against the group, however, it is available as the basis
for levying on the property of the
individual partners as well as on
the property of the partnership.
Equitable adjustments of the
claims of the private creditors of
individual members of the partnership have led to a somewhat
different result where a partnership is wound up and its affairs
are being settled in equity:
namely, that the partnership
creditors have priority so far as
the partnership property goes,
and the individual creditors have
priority on the non-partnership
property of the individual members. In the ordinary course of a
going concern, however, the
partnership creditors have the
advantage of priority so far as
partnership property is concerned and parity with other
creditors in their resort to separate property. This liability of the
individual partner for all of the
debts of the partnership is at
once the strength and the weakness of the partnership plan of
doing business. It furnishes a

very strong basis for credit; on
the other hand, it tends to
frighten away from a partnership
venture those who do not wish
to jeopardize all that they have
in it.
It is this desire for limited liability that has gradually driven
out the partnership in favor of
the corporate form or one of the
other substitutes for incorporation that have been devised with
or without the aid of statutes.
The limited partnership, the special partnership, and various
other types of statutory partnerships sometimes remaining partnerships in name only and having all the essential attributes of
a corporation, have been devised
accordingly. Some of these provide for at least one general partner with unlimited liability, but
in others there is no personal liability other than the risk of losing what is already invested. The
important feature in such statutes is the bringing of adequate
notice to the attention of creditors and would-be creditors as to
the limited nature of a partner’s
responsibility. The word “limited”
may be required in the name of
the partnership. Public record of
some kind and notices in conspicuous places, or other methods adopted by various statutes,
aid in giving this protection to
the public. The law so jealously
guards the public’s rights in
these matters that a comparatively minor deviation from its
requirements may throw the
whole undertaking back into the
category of a general partnership.
In dealing with the liability of
a partnership to outsiders, a
question of more than academic
interest is presented when it is
proposed that a partnership be
dealt with as a separate entity or
a person, in the eyes of the law.
Theoretically, a partnership is
nothing of the sort; actually, the
law has made concessions which
in the aggregate tend to out-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

weigh this theory. Thus, under
modern statutes partnerships
may sue and be sued in their own
name, they may hold and transfer real estate, and their funds
are, as already indicated, sometimes dealt with as if they had
been incorporated.
(3) LIABILITY OF A BUSINESS
TRUST. The liability of a business
trust and its owners to the outside world is theoretically a very
simple but unsatisfactory arrangement— namely, that the
trustees are fully liable, as if they
were partners in the business.
They may, of course, seek reimbursement from the trust funds
for all payments that they are
forced to make in the course of
the business through no fault of
their own; but the beneficiaries
of the trust, who in point of fact
are the real parties in interest,
while the trustees are mere managers, are free of liability or of
any risk other than the loss of
the trust estate. It is of course
possible for the trustees to stipulate in all of their contracts that
they shall not be held liable personally and that the persons with
whom they contract must look to
the trust fund, and only to the
trust fund, for their claims. No
such arrangement, however, will
help the trustees in a tort action,
and of course it is impossible to
force this contractual stipulation
on all strangers who deal with
the business trust. The greatest
danger in such arrangements lies
in the likelihood that a particular court will look upon the whole
transaction as essentially a partnership in spite of the nice formalities written into the trust
agreement. Even in those states
which have taken the lead in the
recognition of this form of business organization, it is necessary
to be very careful to give no direct or indirect part of the control of management to the beneficiaries of the trust.

own name and is later abandoned by the rich parent corporation, the lessor is likely to find
it exceedingly difficult, if not
impossible, to hold the stockholding parent corporation responsible.7 On the other hand,
where a corporation was organized for the purpose of circumventing the law against the paying or receiving of railroad rebates, courts quite readily ignore
the fiction of corporate entity and
set out the natural persons
whose acts, thus laid bare, constitute a violation of the statute.8
In these days of complicated
pyramids, with subsidiary and
parent corporations, it is unwise
to dogmatize as to the possibility of hiding behind the fiction
of corporate entity. Public opinion has been stirred by the use
of that fiction for tax evasion and
has demanded remedial measures. Furthermore, the securities
and exchange legislation of recent days has tended to tighten
the responsibility of directors,
promoters, and persons who
control their actions, with reference to corporate issues.
3. The Internal Relations
(1) SIMPLE CONTRACT. Where
the form of organization is that
of simple contract, the widest
possible latitude exists in the
type of control that each party
to the bargain has over the other.
We discuss elsewhere (Volume VI)
not only the liability in contract
under ordinary legal procedure
but also the contractual control
of procedural law that is sometimes attempted in this particular use of the contract, as well as
in others. There are, however,
several limitations to the use of
the contract principle in the establishment of mutual control m
organization contracts. The most
important of these of course
grew out of the tendency to
change the labor relation from
one of simple contract to one
bearing the earmarks of status.

www.suspicions.com

There are other limitations on
the contract principle that sometimes lead to the adoption of
curious devices for the maintenance of control. Thus, in recent
years a great deal of business
dissatisfaction has existed over
the inability of the manufacturer
of goods, particularly trademarked goods, to control resale
prices and terms, although from
a practical business point of view
the retailer may be as much a
part of the distribution organization of a manufacturer as a
local branch manager could possibly be. This dissatisfaction has
led to a wave of legislation, particularly since the upholding of
the California9 and Illinois10 fair
trade acts, and the passing of the
federal Miller-Tydings Act, under
which it is now possible to make
contracts exercising this degree
of control, or even to bring it
about without the formality of
contracts. The law still prohibits,
however, exclusive agency arrangements in interstate commerce where the tendency is to
create a monopoly or unduly to
interfere with competition. It still
prohibits certain restraints on
alienation of goods after they
have reached the hands of the
dealer, and latterly it has added
a restraint on the freedom of
contract in the selling of goods,
based on the principle of nondiscrimination against competing dealers.11
These contractual limitations
have led to the use of more intimate business relations than the
simple contract calls for. Thus,
the independent dealer may be
converted into an agent,12 or
into a lessee of such property as
a gasoline pump13 or shoe machinery.14 On the other hand,
an employee in charge of a
branch may become converted
into a nominal independent
dealer bound to the former employer by the terms of an elaborate mortgage. To counteract the
advantage of increased control,

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(4) LIABILITY OF A CORPORATION. The simplest of all the
theories of external relationship
is that of the classical period of
corporation law in America. The
stranger dealing with the corporation has no connection whatever with the stockholders or
even with directors. His claim is
purely that against the artificial
person- the corporation- and
unless it can be satisfied out of
the corporation’s property it
must go unsatisfied, regardless
of whether it be a claim in contract or in tort. In course of time,
a good many important modifications of this theory have been
worked out. There are, in the first
place, statutes which give double
liability or proportionate liability,
or even unlimited liability to
stockholders, particularly in such
institutions as banks.6 These
statutes are rather strictly construed with reference to the time
at which one must be a stockholder to come within their operation, the manner in which one
must proceed in order to take
advantage of the statutes, the
question whether the obligation
of the stockholder becomes a
contractual one that will be recognized everywhere or a penal
one that will be given only local
recognition, the question
whether a judgment must first be
rendered against the corporation, and so on. A more serious
danger, however, faces both the
stockholder and the director
where the basis of procedure
against them is not a statute but
the claim that there has been
some fault, such as fraud or irregularity in the actions of the
corporation or of the persons
proceeded against, on the basis
of which they owe reparations on
common law principles to the
outsiders.
In general, the piercing of the
veil of corporate entity is practically limited to cases of fraud.
Thus, even where a wholly owned
subsidiary takes a lease in its

69

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

there is in general the disadvantage of increased responsibility. Combinations may be
found, however, under which the
necessary degree of control may
be worked out under the law
without undue burden.

70

(2) PRINCIPAL AND AGENT.
The substantive law of the mutual duties and rights of principal and agent presents an extreme form of both control and
responsibility. The agent owes
the duty of absolute loyalty and
fidelity, perfect good faith, and
ordinary diligence, plus whatever
skill is contracted for expressly
or impliedly in connection with
his undertakings. In addition he
owes a strict accounting which
may be enforced in equity, or
even in criminal law, by drastic
remedies. His position is, in
short, a fiduciary one. The
principal’s duties to his agent, on
the other hand, are not fiduciary;
they are merely the contractual
obligation to compensate, reimburse, and give proper opportunities and facilities to the agent
for the performance of his duties.
But, of course, as between the
parties there is room for extensive modification of the principalagent relationship. The law takes
cognizance of the actual understandings generally entered into
in various types of agencies as
the basis for its assumptions in
particular cases. Thus, auctioneers, accountants, lawyers, factors or commission merchants in
particular lines of industry, various types of brokers such as socalled real estate brokers and
stock brokers, insurance agents,
advertising agencies, drummers,
mercantile rating agencies, and
a great many others, have taken
on a standardized business relationship and are coming to be
understood by the law as having
entered into certain detailed
standardized contracts with their
clients or principals.

(3) PARTNERSHIP. More standardized, however, are the internal relations in a partnership—
largely because the law refuses
to intervene in the disputes of
partners unless or until they
reach such a point that dissolution is called for. Of course the
terms of a partnership agreement may vary the normal understanding that a majority vote
shall control, or that books and
records shall be open to partners, or that accounts shall be
rendered from time to time. But
even where the obligations of
partners to each other and the
nature of their power of control
in the business is great, it is difficult if not impossible for the law
to take cognizance of them except as the basis of alleged
breaches in the extreme or cumulative cases that come before
it eventually.
(4) BUSINESS TRUST. In the
case of trusts, control must not
be exercised by any act or vote
of the beneficiaries. Trustees are,
however, answerable in court for
mismanagement of the trust estate, but Courts are not willing
to substitute their own judgment
for that of trustees acting in
good faith, no matter how erroneous or foolish the judgment of
the trustees seems to be. Hence,
in general the control exercised
over trustees in a business trust
is the purely negative one of
checking misconduct. It is not a
policy-forming control.
(5) CORPORATION. Control in
the case of the corporation goes
to the other extreme of invoking
legal sanctions at every turn. In
the first place, stockholders’ control is exercised by voting, and a
great many complaints are
accordingly answered with slight
comfort by the suggestion that
the remedy is at the ballot box.
In recent years there has been a
great tendency to underestimate
the importance of voting

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

power—in fact, the power is
meaningless to a small minority
stockholder in a nation-wide corporation. This tendency has been
reflected in the actual legal setup of many corporations in which
types of stock have been issued
with limited or conditional voting power or no voting power at
all. On the other hand, voting
power has sometimes been accorded quite irregularly, from the
point of view of classical corporation law, to bondholders and
others in similar positions. Generally, in the American charter of
today, voting power is apportioned on the basis of the number of shares of stock held. In a
few instances the older idea of
one vote for each stockholder lingers on, but the modern tendency is perhaps in the direction
of cumulative voting systems
whereby a minority, by casting
all of its votes in favor of only a
portion of the candidates, is enabled to get representation on
the board of directors. In general,
the voting power of stockholders is limited precisely to the selection of directors. Exceptional
situations are created by some
statutes requiring the ratification
of extraordinary measures by
stockholders’ vote, and occasionally by-laws do the same. In a few
matters, the vote, or rather the
veto, of a minority stockholder
is important because of the provisions of the law requiring
unanimous consent to drastic
changes in the structure of a corporation. Thus, in the classical
corporation law of the end of the
last century it was not uncommon to find such veto power left
to a single stockholder in such
matters as changing the purpose
of the corporation, selling all of
its assets, or changing its capital structure. More recently there
has been a tendency to leave
such matters to the board of directors or, at most, to require a
ratification by a stated majority—
perhaps two-thirds or three-

4. Readjustment
and Dissolution
When in the course of events
it becomes necessary to dissolve
or rearrange business ties, the
parties generally find one phase
of their relations in which their

preliminary plans were defective.
It is quite natural that when
one’s attention is concentrated
on a venture which he hopes and
expects to prove profitable, all
darker possibilities will be
touched upon lightly or dismissed from the mind. Quite
apart from the psychological operation of such an uneven distribution of attention it would certainly be unwise to create unnecessary sales resistance by suggesting, in making the preliminary plans, all the possible evils
that might be encountered. Furthermore, those evils which
could be foreseen as possibilities
are the very ones that are least
likely to overtake a business venture. Consequently, at the moment of readjustment or dissolution, the parties frequently find
themselves in a situation inadequately provided for by their
original agreements. So far as
this is true, they are compelled
to resort to one of two sets of
ideas: first, they may dissolve or
rearrange their relationships by
means of a new agreement; second, they may resort to general
rules of law that become operative in the absence of specific
agreements.
(1) CONTRACTUAL METHOD
OF REORGANIZATION AND DISSOLUTION. At the outset, we may
well bear in mind that under the
contractual pattern of business
already described the contractual
method of reorganization and
dissolution predominates. Ever
so many questions that have
reached our courts as to the
rights and duties of the parties
after a dissolution have to be
answered on the basis of an
analysis of the agreement to disagree. It is quite possible and
even usual for the parties to
leave open an obligation to adjust errors and take care of new
developments or discoveries that
have their basis in the former
relation, especially if it is long-

www.suspicions.com

continued or complicated.
Thus, in the course of a
project, questions have arisen
between owners and builders
calling a halt to operations by
mutual agreement. What shall be
done with building material ordered but not delivered, with
building materials delivered to
the premises but not opened,
with material opened and not
used or only partly used? The
answer of course depends upon
the terms of the agreement dissolving their relations, express
or implied. Similar questions
arise when an employee is dismissed with or without cause, or
when he otherwise terminates
his relationship as an employee.
What of commissions on transactions which he has begun but
not consummated, or on transactions consummated under
which the following through of
the performance was delayed
until the happening of some
event or on a contingency? What
of the employee’s right to enter
into a competing business in
which he would use the knowledge gained in the former
employer’s business, and what of
his relationship established with
the trade while in that employ?
Again the agreement -if there is
one- embodying the terms on
which the employee operates
should be resorted to in the first
instance in answer to these questions.
Though this formula simplifies the numerous questions relating to dissolution, and suggests at the same time the importance of embodying in agreements of dissolution a good deal
more than the mere mutual
agreement to quit, there are situations in which the agreement to
disagree cannot be or at all
events is not used. It cannot be
used where the relationship between the parties is one in which
the public has a special interest.
Thus, to take a type of status
created by contract outside of

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

fourths of the stockholders—and
to give to the individual stockholder, instead of his former veto
power, a right to be bought out
at an appraised valuation if he
took every necessary step to protest against the contemplated
major changes.
Individual stockholders are
protected by the courts against
the bad faith or clearly unlawful
acts of directors. They have little
or no protection against what
they consider the bad judgment
of the directors or even their arbitrariness in such matters as
withholding dividends where bad
faith cannot be proved. The court
will not in general substitute its
opinion of how the corporation
should be run for that of the duly
elected directors. There have
been cases in which stockholders have succeeded in compelling directors to pay dividends,
but in every such case some element will be found other than the
mere arbitrary refusal of directors to declare a dividend. For
example, in the case of Dodge v.
Ford Motor Company,15 which
attracted a great deal of attention at the time, it was held that
Mr. Ford’s own admission that
his directors were holding back
earnings in order to accomplish
certain humanitarian ends,
rather than for any good business reason, was sufficient to
warrant the court in exercising
its visitorial powers and compelling the declaration of a dividend.
Had the directors merely insisted
that in their opinion it was for
the business interests of the
company to build up a surplus
at that particular time, it is difficult to see how a court could
have overridden their decision.

71

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

the business field as an extreme
illustration, no agreement between husband and wife can terminate the marriage relationship. In fact, where the court procedure provided for such cases
is used and it is discovered that
the parties have resorted to the
courts as a result of an agreement in which one is bound not
to contest the action of the other,
the entire transaction is not only
void because of collusion but is
also a basis for criminal prosecution.

72

(2) DISSOLUTION OF CORPORATIONS. Less extreme, of
course, is the situation involved
in the dissolution of a corporation; but, in general, the
charter given by the state can be
destroyed only by the formula
provided by the state. Any agreement among stockholders and
other parties in interest from
which this formula, whatever it
may be, is absent, will leave the
corporation alive or, if for practical purposes dead, at least unburied and ready to haunt those
who have left it so.
State laws usually provide
that for the surrender of a charter a reasonable process of publicity, such as notice to creditors
and advertisements for the benefit of the public, be utilized and
that reasonable assurance be
publicly given that all debts have
been paid and all proceeds properly distributed. The exact machinery for accomplishing the
reasonable assurance of these
ends differs of course in the different states and for different
types of corporations. Furthermore, there is a great deal
of difference between the dissolution of a solvent corporation
and of one that is insolvent. The
latter may require a court procedure in which a receiver takes
charge of the dissolution for the
greater assurance of justice to all
parties. There is likewise a difference in various systems and

rules as to who may initiate the
process of dissolution. For a going concern that is successfully
accomplishing its purpose the
traditional rule has been that any
stockholder could insist upon its
continuance. Gradually there has
developed a view that a majority
of at least a two-thirds or fourfifths have the power of forcing
a dissolution. Sometimes dissolution is provided for on the initiative of the state as a kind of
double penalty imposed on the
corporation for specific acts. Occasionally the initiative of the
state may be utilized without
specific reason under the clause
reserving to the state which
grants the charter the right to
alter, amend, or repeal the charter. But whatever methods are
provided by the statute law
which creates the corporation,
only those methods enumerated
by the law are effective. In the
absence of any law on the subject, for example, there can be
no dissolution or repeal of charter by mere desuetude.
(3) DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIPS. What has been said of
the corporation applies to a
much smaller degree to the partnership. In general, partnership
can be dissolved by agreement
between the parties, at least so
far as the parties and those
claiming under them are concerned. But so far as the public
is concerned the result of partnership law may still adhere to
the acts of the parties. Thus,
unless persons are notified of the
change or dissolution in the partnership makeup, they can go on
assuming that they are dealing
with the original partners. A specific notice to persons who have
had dealings with the partnership and a more general advertisement in the newspaper for
the benefit of other members of
the public are generally deemed
sufficient. The situation is really
no different from that existing in

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

ordinary agency. One who has
been an agent may go on binding his principal, even after the
agency has ceased, because of
the continued appearance of
agency, unless and until the principal has taken the necessary
steps, through actual or constructive notice, to avoid a continuation of the appearance of
authority in the agent. Special
types of partnership created by
law resemble corporations in
that one who has taken advantage of the special provision of a
statute may be so subject to the
terms and conditions of that statute.
(4) DISSOLUTION OF TRUSTS.
If the relationship is, in the eyes
of the law, that of trustee and
beneficiary, the public has a sufficient interest in the proper administration of the trust to require the court’s approval of the
dissolution, but whether this is
insisted upon or not depends, of
course, on local law which frequently distinguishes various
types of trust.
If the organization or the relation between the parties has
been effective through a conveyance of real estate or such document as a lease or mortgage, an
effective dissolution may require
a reconveyance or other cancellation of a document in writing.
In all these cases, of course, by
effective dissolution we mean
one that will bind the public as
well as the parties. Between the
parties themselves, the simple
contract of dissolution may be
quite effectual in many of these
instances. It may even give one
or the other party a right to go
into a court of equity to force the
other to execute the necessary
documents for the completion of
the dissolution as to the public.
(5) TERMINATIVE OR CONDITIONAL CONTRACT. There remains for study that class of
cases in which dissolution is pos-

sible by contract but is effected
in some other way than by a clear
distinct contract of dissolution
made at the time of dissolution.
The most obvious case is, of
course, that in which an agreement creating a relationship
gives a power of termination to
one side or the other under various conditions and stipulates
what shall be done if and when
that power is exercised. The
original agreement may even
stipulate the time for the termination of the relationship or the
event on the occurrence of which
it shall automatically cease. Such
cases differ from those of agreements of dissolution already discussed only in that the terms are
to be sought in the original
agreement rather than in the
subsequent one. Practically, of
course, this difference may be a
very great one in that the original agreement may fail to foresee the situation that actually
confronts the parties at the time
of the termination of their relations.

(7) TERMINATION BY LAW. In
addition to these various acts of

www.suspicions.com

parties -either two-sided or onesided- that may terminate a relationship, there are some instances of termination purely by
operation of law. Death is the
most important of these - but it
does not terminate all relationships. Death, for example, does
not end a contract in the absence
of a stipulation to that effect, or
circumstances giving rise to the
implication of such a stipulation.
Of course, such circumstances
exist where one side is to give a
personal service. If “A” agrees to
paint a portrait for “B” and dies
either before he has begun the
work or while the portrait is in
process, “A’s” executor can
hardly expect “B” to accept a
completed portrait finished by
someone else in fulfillment of the
contract. If an employer or employee dies in the middle of the
term of employment the contract
of employment is at an end. Yet
there are other agreements in
which there is no such implication. Suppose, for example, that
I buy an expensive set of books
or furniture and agree to pay in
installments. If I die before the
last installment is paid, my estate owes the balance. Many contracts are made for things required for individual persons and
not at all for their families—such
as law books for the lawyer, or
medical books or apparatus for
the physician—without due consideration of the fact that the
contractual obligation continues
in spite of death. Of course, the
situation has been met in some
types of business agreement by
stipulating definitely what shall
happen in the event of death. A
rather curious limitation on the
power of contract to meet this
condition, at least in one way,
has developed in connection with
the advertisement of an installment furniture house that in case
of death of a purchaser without
paying quite all the installments,
under certain conditions a receipt in full would be given to his

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(6) IRREVOCABLE AGENCY
OR PARTNERSHIP. A more common instance of the same kind
arises where, in spite of any
agreement to the contrary, one
party has a power to terminate
the relationship even though he
has no right to do so. This is
generally true of both agency
and partnership. A principal, an
agent, or a partner may in general put an end to the relationship, even though he had agreed
definitely not to do so within a
specified time, and even though
he lays himself open to an action
for damages by the breach of his
contract by terminating the relationship. Business men have attempted by their contracts to
curtail this power: in other
words, to make an agency or a
partnership irrevocable. Sometimes their effort shows itself in
the establishment of a penalty or
a forfeiture of an interest where

the power is wrongfully exercised. The limits of this type of
self-help or contractual control of
adjective law we have already
explored. The law does recognize, however, at least one class
of irrevocable agency—the socalled power coupled with an interest. A great deal of learning
has clustered around the meaning of this phrase. One of the
leading cases on the subject is
Hunt v. Rousmanier’s Estate.” In
that case an experiment was
tried for the creation of a novel
type of security: the creditor, instead of getting a mortgage, was
given a power to sell a ship and
reimburse himself for his debt
out of the proceeds. This substitute for the mortgage would
probably have worked out satisfactorily, either as a means of
pressure on the debtor or as an
actual satisfaction of the claim
of the creditor through the machinery proposed, but the parties
had not foreseen the complication that would arise if the debtor
died before the execution of the
power. Under the ordinary rule
of agency, death operated as a
revocation of a power, but it was
contended that this was a power
coupled with an interest. Chief
Justice Marshall ruled that is was
not, that the type of interest contemplated in that phrase as used
in this connection was only a
kind of part ownership in the
thing and not merely an interest
in the proceeds of the sale authorized by the power. The creditor was treated as an ordinary
unsecured creditor. And though
courts since that day have been
a little more ready to detect
present interest in the thing under any given set of facts, they
have continued to apply the rule
as laid down by Marshall once
they determine that the interest
in question is limited to the proceeds.

73

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

74

estate. This was interpreted by
an insurance commissioner as a
contract of insurance and, as
such, one which a furniture company was not authorized to enter into. Death likewise has very
little effect on the business relationships made up in the form
of contract in which the parties
are corporations rather than individuals; for though the death
of a partner terminates a partnership, the death of an officer
or shareholder leaves the corporation intact, with a new owner
of the stock and, at most, a vacancy in office for the filling of
which the law provides.
It is further possible to avoid
the effect of death on a contract
by stipulating that the contract
is made on behalf of the maker’s
executors and administrators, as
well as on his own behalf.
There are, however, some
phases of the’ operation of law
not so easily circumvented. Thus,
war suspends a contract and
other relationships between subjects of the warring states. Intervening illegality of the purpose
of the contract or relation by reason of a change in law will automatically terminate the relation. Likewise, bankruptcy, statutes of limitations, and the like,
may operate against the wishes
of the parties or of one of them
by reason of the supremacy of
the law.
(8) BASES FOR PLANNING
TERMINATION. Within the limits
of control of the manner of terminating relations, it remains to
consider the actual practice in
providing methods of termination for various types of relations
common in business. At least a
few general tendencies stand
out: labor relations are usually
made terminable at the will of
either party, rather than timed.
The reason is not merely the desire of the business man to retain control over his employee
through a constant threat of pos-

sible discharge, but the more
deep-seated fear of the business
cycle. Until some progress is
made in stabilizing industry so
as to avoid extremes of speeded
production and unemployment,
no time contract with labor will
commend itself to the executive.
In certain types of employment
there has grown up a practice of
requiring at least a short-timed
notice, such as the two-weeks
period in the standard actor’s
contract, and it may well be that
this tendency will manifest itself
more widely as a first step towards the elimination of the insecurity of the employee incident
to the present system.
There are, of course, business situations in which the very
opposite thing is striven for:
namely, where the power of terminating an agency or a partnership agreement is specifically
diminished or sought to be withheld by the imposition of a penalty or the actual creation of a
power coupled with an interest
for no other purpose than to
avoid terminability. Again there
are situations in which business
recognizes the propriety of giving a choice of continuation or
termination to one side. This is
present in the renewable lease,
where the mode of renewal is
through silence or through the
definite giving of notice. Business may further be interested
in the termination of relations in
case of bankruptcy or a similar
complication. Leases nowadays
frequently specify that, in case
of bankruptcy, a lease shall become terminable at the option of
the lessor. Just what is a convenient period for any particular
type of relation to endure is a
question of business fact depending upon customs of trade,
seasons, and cycles in a particular business, the length of time
required for the completion of a
deal or deals, the comparative
length of the period of preparation or training necessary to

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

make an employment or similar
relationship profitable, and the
like. In some instances, however,
the actual custom or practice is
controlled by arbitrary limits
such as the calendar year, or by
arbitrary customs such as those
which prescribe moving days in
various localities.
Just what events shall be
looked upon as terminating a
relation, and particularly as discharging a contract, is essentially
a question of interpretation, depending, like all questions of interpretation, on the actual words
used and their most likely explanation in the light of customs
and practices, past dealings and
other attending circumstances.
An interesting question in the
conflict of laws is raised where a
contract was made in one place
to be performed in another, and
a particular event occurs which,
in the absence of stipulations to
the contrary, would constitute a
discharge of the contract in one
of those places though not in the
other. In general it is safest to
view such situations as calling
for the intent of the parties. The
assumption is frequently indulged in that the intent of the
parties can be ascertained by
reference to the law of the place
of making rather than to that of
the place of performance, so far
as the question of discharge is
concerned. The matter can of
course easily be taken care of by
express stipulation, since the
difficulty is entirely one of interpretation.
Differing in many respects
from termination of the relation
is the alteration of the business
relation in view of new circumstances. It is, of course, possible
in many such cases to proceed
to separate stages: first, the dissolution of the former relation
and, second, the creation of the
new one. In very simple situations this analysis is practical
and convenient. In some, it furnishes an equitable basis for pro-

course of business development
provided they comply with such
procedure as the statute provides by way of substitution for
the old power to block change
for the protection of the minority stockholders. For example,
several states have provisions to
the effect that a two-thirds majority of the owners of all stock
of the corporation may sell the
entire plant and proceeds of the
corporation and, therefore, lay
the foundation for an eventual
dissolution, but that a minority
in such case if it objects to the
price at which the assets are sold
may demand arbitration and be
reimbursed for its share in accordance with the award of such
arbitration.
Where the differences of any
of the various factions become
serious, and particularly where
the creditors of the organization
are likely to be delayed in their
claims through the process of reorganization and are in a position to check or interfere with its
ordinary work, the particular legal device that seems most usable for the tiding-over process
is the receivership. The receivership is not in itself a “remedy”
furnished by the law or equity to
mend any situation. It is a subsidiary part of procedure applicable only in a case that is pending in the court or which gets
into court on some entirely independent legal or equitable
ground. Of course in a great
many cases there is a simple and
legitimate ground for going into
court, and the receivership can
be asked for by a party in interest in the ordinary course of
things. But in a vastly greater
number of cases of business
reorganization the thing actually
desired is the subsidiary device
of receivership, and the ground
for going into court is a more or
less trumped-up one. A friendly
suit is instituted by someone
having a technical claim, and by
the recitation of more or less fic-

www.suspicions.com

titious matter the way is paved
for a friendly receivership. In recent years the courts have relaxed their rigidity in requiring
an independent cause of action
and have come to recognize a
kind of non-litigious administrative function of tiding over the
period of reorganization and
watching the process so as to
safeguard the interests of all
parties concerned.
The inevitable result of the
process of adapting the old tool
of receivership for a new purpose
is exactly what we witnessed
before in similar situations.
There are numerous imperfections in the system. While the
“umbrella receivership” does
serve to keep things intact and
moving on the negative side, it
does not go very far towards a
solution of the difficulties if the
parties themselves are not willing to come to an understanding. At most, there is a threat in
the distance that if the parties
will not come together amicably
the machinery of foreclosure or
of some other drastic remedy
may be so utilized as to injure
all of them.
(9) FEDERAL BANKRUPTCY
LAW. Among the proposals for
further adapting the machinery
of the law to the business of corporate reorganization, the most
sweeping is that appended to the
Federal Bankruptcy Law as Chapter X. Reorganization is not bankruptcy in any traditional sense.
Nevertheless the emphasis of
bankruptcy law has shifted from
the quasi-criminal treatment of
the debtor to the processes of
rehabilitation in the course of
time. If we read the constitutional
clause which gives Congress the
power to make uniform the laws
of “bankruptcies” throughout the
United States, thinking of the
important word as the “skin of a
living thought” and not as a “crystal,” we may uphold the power
of Congress to take control of

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

cedure even if the parties themselves have not taken the two
steps consciously and deliberately. Thus, in building contracts
in which unforeseen difficulties
have arisen and in the course of
which the owner promises the
builder an additional compensation to that originally agreed
upon, in the terms of his promise to finish the work, which he
is already bound to do, courts
have seen a way out of the difficulty of lack of consideration by
pretending that the transaction
had two stages and that after the
slate had been cleared by mutual
release a new contract had been
entered into with a new consideration for a new promise that
resembled the old one.
In more complicated situations, however, there is a real
difficulty involved in taking the
two steps or even in imagining
them. It is the difficulty of taking care of a complicated bit of
business machinery during the
process of transition. Even where
the reorganization of a business
is entirely voluntary, and where
it is dictated through no failure
whatever of business but simply
as an ordinary incident in its
growth, a period of negotiations
must be weathered in which the
maintenance of a status quo and
possibly a perfectly neutral temporary control may be important
postulates. If, as is quite likely
during this period, there develops a dissatisfied faction, be it
ever so small a minority, a truly
amicable reorganization becomes impossible. Our corporation laws, for reasons that antedate modern business, contemplate such a static condition of
business that they give a single
stockholder the power to block
any change in the articles of incorporation. In recent years statutes have been passed modifying this power of the minority
stockholder, so that a majority
can take steps likely to be profitable if not necessary in the

75

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

corporate reorganization under
bankruptcy forms. Congress has
proceeded in this matter cautiously by merely enacting the
procedure developed by courts
without statutory aid, under the
“umbrella receiverships” of recent years. It has, however, cut
away a great deal of red tape by
making the receivership and the
reorganization under it the thing
asked for rather than an incidental boon in a proceeding largely
fictitious. The essential thing
asked for by business is a respite
during which unhurried bargaining can lead to an effective plan,
and the aid of an impartial tribunal to see that the plan is fairly
arrived at and honestly carried
out. “Nuisance value” and
“squeezing” must be reduced to
a minimum.

76

(l0) THE “EQUITIES.” Above
all, realities must be faced to
apportion what the business
man has learned to call the “equities,” by which he means the
ultimate calculation of the extent
of the interests of all the types
of creditors, proprietors and
other claimants. Legal priorities
must frequently give way to business priorities. Thus it may be
vital to all parties to keep a business unit intact. In such a situation there may be a dispute
among those claiming special
interests in the various parts of
the business as to how they
should be ranked. Thus a second
mortgage on a plant absolutely
essential to an organization may
well take priority over a first

mortgage on a less essential
plant. Furthermore, new money
must be catered to at the expense of the old investors for
their ultimate benefit. And this
new money must be sought
where it can be found. Experience has shown that common stockholders, if given even
a slight, advantage, will frequently furnish that new money.
Creditors, generally, will not.
Hence it had been found impractical to refuse any such concession to stockholders where creditors are not paid in full, although
theoretically if there is any value
left in the enterprise it belongs
to the unsatisfied creditors. A
practical compromise has established itself: that such creditors
may not be passed over entirely
if stockholders are to be dealt
with. They must be treated fairly.

6

This arrangement is of
course not new. In early American
law, incorporation did not generally carry with it limited liability. It
was only some 50 years ago, in
the period which is here described
as the “classical’ period of American corporation law, that the
limitation of liability became
nearly universal.
7

Majestic Co. v. Orpheum
Circuit, Inc., 21 F. (2d) 720 (1927).
8

Bundred v. Rice, Ohio St.
640, 32 N. E. 169 (1892).
9

Kunsman v. Max Factor &
Co., 299 U. S. 198, 57 S. Ct. 147
(1936).
10

01d Dearborn Distributing
Co. v. Seagram-Distillers Corp.,
299 U. S. 183, 57 S. Ct. 139,
(1936).
11

Robinson-Patman Act of
June 19, 1936, 15 U. S. C. A. Sec.
13 et seq.
12

1

Stockwell v. Morris, 22 Pac.
2d, 189 (1933).
2

Lancaster v. Choate, 87
Mass. (5 Allen) 530 (1863).
3

Schumann Heink v. Folsom
et al., 328 Ill. 321 (1927).
4

Hecht v. Malley, 265 U. S.
144, 44 S. Ct. 462 (1924).
5 Reilly

v. Cline, 27 Ariz. 432

(1925).

Suspicions News Magazine

F. T. C. v. Curtis Publishing
Co., 260 U. S. 568, 43 S. Ct. 210
(1923).
13

F. T. C. v. Sinclair Refining
Co., 261 U. S. 463, 43 S. Ct. 450
(1923).
14

United Shoe Machinery Co.
v. U. S., 258 U. S. 451, 42 S. Ct.
363 (1922).
15

204 Mich. 459, 170 N. W.
668 (1919).
16

8 Wheaton (U. S.) 174
(1823).

www.suspicions.info

Chapter XI

Some Frontiers of
Business Law

nation-wide rather than a matter
of purely local concern. The significance of size has become
acute, whether we consider the
question of an optimum size or
of the actual size of units. Associated with this question is that
of the relation between the investor or owner of an enterprise and
the management. Further, with
size and the development of “absentee ownership” has come a
new series of labor relations, as
different from the personal relations of employer and employee
of petty capitalism as those were
from the still more personal relations of the domestic system
of production. Specialization of
functions has given rise to a series of recognized types of trades
and even professions to do the
work formerly allotted indiscriminately to “merchants.” The attitude of Government to business
has, in course of time, undergone
many changes. Not only have
there been much heralded “new
deals” from time to time, but
imperceptibly, from time to time,
have state and Federal Governments and their agencies in-

www.suspicions.com

creased their direct participation
in business as producers, buyers,
sellers, competitors. Gradually,
too, have they extended the idea
of regulation of private business,
through officers and administrative commissions vested with
a high degree of discretion. Underlying these changes in the
attitude of Government we must
recognize not only new needs
calling for new methods, but increased knowledge leading to a
desire to conserve what was formerly wasted or protect interests
that had formerly been inadequately defined. Thus, the desire to conserve natural and human resources has led to interference with such concepts as
the right of property and freedom of contract, and may lead
to further curtailment of these
concepts, even in the absence of
drastic external changes.
2. Future Trend
of Law Development
The process of prophesying
the trend of legal development
is even more precarious than the
guessing of the future of natural

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

1. Development
of Business Law
The processes by which the
law brought over to America
from England has been adapted
to the current needs of business
are continuing and likely to be
accelerated in the immediate future, in view of the rapidity and
the extent of the changes of the
demands of business life in the
world today. We have progressed
from a rural to an urban pattern,
even in rural communities. We
have accordingly become interdependent to a degree undreamed of in the days of the
“rugged individualism” characteristic of the pioneer. We have
accustomed ourselves to rapid
transactions, necessarily standardized to save time, expense,
labor. We have become adjusted
to mass production and its necessary counterparts, mass distribution and mass consumption.
Consumers have become separated from the producers who
supply them, not only in space
but through the intervention of
various kinds of middlemen.
Business has tended to become

77

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

phenomena, because of the human element, which is likely to
differ from time to time and from
place to place. Yet there are several steps that can be taken towards meeting the future of law
in such a definite area as American business at the present day.

78

(1) ESTABLISHED CODES OF
BUSINESS LAW. In the first place,
a distinction may be drawn between those parts of the law that
have been stabilized for the next
generation by codification or allied processes and those in a
state of flux. The drafts of the
American Commissioners on Uniform State Laws for Negotiable
Instruments, Sales, Conditional
Sales, Warehouse Receipts, Partnership, Limited Partnership, are
typical, but by no means exhaustive of the first group. There is
an understandable resistance
against amendments, however
good in themselves, that will destroy uniformity. There is, moreover, even in the absence of the
consideration of uniformity, a
reluctance about disturbing the
well-established expectations of
the layman, or his vested interests. Hence, major disturbances
are not common in American legislation in the main outlines of
real estate law or contracts or
even agency or trusteeship or the
torts most significant for business life. On the other hand, we
have less assurance of continuity in the essentially legislative
field of corporation law, or the
controversial arena of labor law,
or in the newly entered realms
of administrative regulation of
particular business relations.
These are today’s frontiers of
business law.
(2) NATION-WIDE SIMILARITY OF BUSINESS LEGISLATION.
Within these confines there are
further limits resulting from the
centripetal forces that have heretofore prevented American state
law from developing into forty-

eight independent state systems.
Some of these forces are still
potent. There are, for example,
the nation-wide textbooks, encyclopedias, digests, periodicals
and other literature; the national
law schools and lawyers’ associations; the movements for uniform laws sponsored by lawyers
and businessmen alike; the occasional attempts to “restate” the
law of America, particularly when
practiced on the grand scale of
the American Law Institute; the
nation-wide character of pressure groups, including the organized mouthpieces of particular
industries and of labor; the imitativeness of legislatures; and,
operating through all these channels, the fundamental similarities
of needs and wishes throughout
the country.
(a) Statutory Waves. As a
result of these forces, business
legislation, even to a greater extent than legislation on other
subjects, has passed over this
country in easily recognizable
waves. In the social legislation
affecting labor relations, for example, that has been a major
phenomenon of the last fifty
years, there are distinguishable
several waves. First came the
early factory and mining acts
pertaining to working conditions
in the Eighties. Later, a growing
interest in the employment contract left us, in spite of resistance
on constitutional grounds, a precipitate of laws regarding hours,
modes and periods of pay, machinery for conciliation, mediation and arbitration, if not for all
industries and employees, at
least for those shown to require
the exercise of that exception to
ordinary constitutional limitations known as “police power.” In
the Nineties arose a series of
experiments for employers’ liability or workmen’s compensation, sometimes with a state insurance feature. Legislation
favoring unionism, establishing

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

or strengthening the “right” to
strike, to picket, or use other
weapons of organized labor without interference from employers
or employer-controlled organizations, has been typical of the first
third of the twentieth century.
The growing political power of
labor has been respected by legislatures in minor ripples of
statutory activity regarding a
hundred subjects ranging from
washroom facilities to a fair and
free opportunity to vote in political elections. In other series of
acts the laborer is protected
against exploitation by loansharks dealing in wage assignments, against crooked employment bureaus, against grafting
foremen, and various kinds of
intimidation.
(b) Federal Legislation. Federal legislation for men employed
in interstate commerce has heretofore followed the same models
as state legislation. Recent Federal legislation beginning with
the unconstitutional National Industrial Recovery Act and continuing in the Wagner National
Labor Relations Act extends to
all industry engaged in or affecting interstate commerce a rule
in favor of collective bargaining,
against employer interference
with employee organization. Further Federal legislation is directed at standards of hours and
wages. The significance of the
entrance of the Federal Government into this field of law is enhanced by three considerations:
first, the tremendous influence
exercised by Federal legislation
as an example for our mimetic
state legislatures; secondly, the
assumption that where the Federal Government has the power
of regulation, that power is plenary, and not to be measured by
the limited extent of state regulation allowed in corresponding
cases; finally, the recent holdings
of our Supreme Court giving new
scope to the possibilities of

reaching through the interstate
commerce power to activities
physically localized within a
state.1
(c) Federal Influences on
State Legislation. In addition to
these long-existing Federal influences for maintaining the essential unity of American law, there
has appeared in recent years a
tendency on the part of the Federal Government to suggest particular state legislation, and not
infrequently to back up the suggestion with an offer of financial
cooperation. Provisions in the
Social Security laws and inheritance tax laws, and administrative
action in the administration of
relief, are in point.

3. Time Element
and Business Law
A final consideration limiting
our survey of the frontiers of
business law is that of time. Are
we concerned with next year’s
legislatures, or the next revolution of the business cycle, or the
length of an average business
career, or the long process of
human evolution in which the
capitalistic system may be regarded as a stage? Obviously,
each of these time-schemes has
its interest and its significance.
To the labor leader on the fighting line, next year’s legislation
may be all-important and the
details of administration may
loom large. To the student of
economic history these matters
are of minor importance. He wonders whether our whole system
of contract will endure under the
incessant penetration of administrative interference into enclosures formerly considered sacred
to private agreement.
For present purposes neither

www.suspicions.com

extreme will be most useful. We
are concerned with as long a look
ahead as is practical in business
planning worthy of the name.
This period is perhaps longer
than most of us imagine. We
make long leases, we invest, we
buy insurance, we build, we create trusts, we incorporate, we
prepare for careers on the basis
of hurried assumptions about
the relative immutability of legal
systems not at all borne out by
facts. Let us consider, for example, some of the uncertainties
of future law involved in a fiftyyear lease entered into by a department store in a large city. We
assume that it will continue to
be legally possible to engage in
that business in substantially the
same way during that period in
spite of laws pretty definitely
aimed at curtailing the advantage of the large retailer both in
buying (e.g., the RobinsonPatman Act) and in selling (e.g.,
the so-called Fair Practices Acts).
As licensing laws increase, we
shall probably encounter new
difficulties in holding drug and
optical goods and liquor and
personal service departments
together in one organization.
One extremist in the New York
legislature has suggested that
department stores be required to
have a separate entrance for each
department, precisely as that
state already requires a separate
entrance for a liquor department.
But assuming that neither
law nor economics will destroy
the department store within the
term of the lease, what shall we
say about zoning laws, or expensive requirements as to safety
and convenience of premises, or
special taxes? What of the law’s
power over the dollars in which
rent shall be paid? What of labor
laws or administrative regulation
of advertising and merchandising that may fall with peculiar
force upon such units? Bills have
already been proposed to divorce
manufacture completely from the

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(d) Federal Courts and the
Common Law. On the other
hand, one aspect of Federal influence towards uniformity
seems to have suffered a setback. Ever since Mr. Justice
Story’s pronouncement in Swift
v. Tyson,2 there has been an
academic controversy over the
relation between Federal courts
and the common law. Conceding
that it was the common law of
the several states that they were
called on to administer, there
remained the practical question
whether they were bound to accept the view of state courts as
to what that common law was in
any state. A hundred years ago
Story was inclined to proclaim
that he knew better than the New
York judges what the law of negotiable instruments was in New
York—and he probably did. A
troublesome line of decisions
followed under which one result
could be expected in a Federal
court and another in a state court
supposed to be administering
the same law. This condition has
recently been ended by a Supreme Court decision.3 The result is a happy one, although it
does involve the recognition of
the supremacy of each state in

finding its own common law as
well as creating its own statutes.
Obviously, it was indulging in
a less violent fiction to insist on
the uniformity of the common
law in our several states in
Story’s day than it would be today, and, in spite of all the leveling forces, we must look forward
to a condition in which it becomes more and more perilous
for the business man to cross
state lines equipped only with
the forms, franchises, authorizations and general legal outlook
of a single locality. In commercial law it is, on the whole, likely
that convenience will point the
way to greater uniformity than in
other parts of the law, but those
differences which will endure for
it will be all the more noticeable
and more important, because
ever since the days of Cicero it
has been recognized that commerce tends to seek a uniform
rule of law wherever it goes.

79

functions of a retail selling organization of this type. Of course,
it would be impossible to do
business if every far-fetched proposal were an object of fear. It is
precisely the necessity of discriminating between the farfetched and the probable prophecies about our legal system that
makes a study of some of the
typical frontiers desirable; and
hence we base our time limits on
this necessity.
To recapitulate: our specific
frontier themes are, (1) labor law,
(2) the administrative regulations
of particular business and (.3)
corporation law; our point of view
recognizes state differentiation
of details, but concentrates on
the waves of legislation and decision that the nation as a whole
experiences; our time schedule
adopts a reasonable period for
business planning, which, of
course, varies in different parts
of the law.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

I. LABOR LAW

80

The labor law frontier may be
disposed of most readily. We
have already traced the history
of modern labor legislation. What
is happening today may be summarized under the following tendencies, by no means limited to
labor law:
(1) The departure from the
contract idea and the substitution of a new type of status law
for employer and employee regardless of the terms of contracts of employment.
(2) The increasing interest of
government and particularly the
Federal Government in labor relations.
(3) The increasing use of the
machinery of administrative law
in developing labor relations.
1. National Labor
Relations Board
The second and third fea-

tures of current labor law are
treated elsewhere in this work.
The National Labor Relations
Board can best be understood in
juxtaposition with other regulative boards whose early history
it is repeating. It begins by taking its tone from the agitation
that led to its creation precisely
as the Interstate Commerce
Commission did fifty years ago.
It proceeds as a prosecuting
body protecting one interest, labor, and opposing every other.
Whether it will reach the judicial
level of the Interstate Commerce
Commission slowly or rapidly,
with or without radical statutory
amendment, remains to be seen.
It is, however, necessarily experimenting and unearthing a great
deal of information not unlike
that unearthed in the first rate
cases of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. While litigation is
pending as to the exact requisites of a hearing under the statute or under the constitution, the
large questions to be encountered next are political rather
than legal, and there is no reason to expect a diminution of
Government interest in the welfare of the laborer in the immediate future.
2. Collective Bargaining
Our immediate concern here
is rather with the first-mentioned
feature, the departure from the
contractual conception of the
employer-employee relationship
that was universally accepted in
the middle of the nineteenth century. In our brief historic sketch
we spoke of certain statutory
modifications of the contract of
employment, such as those established by employer’s liability,
any contract to the contrary notwithstanding. What we are facing today in the ascendancy of
the principle of “collective bargaining” is not a new application
of the contract idea in labor but
a denial of it. The theory is that
however a person became an em-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

ployee, his position gives him a
right to exert the influence of a
vote in a group after political
models. Furthermore, as in the
political models followed, the
majority rules. What the representatives chosen by this majority can do is not precisely to act
as agents and bind them by contract. Not a single laborer is
bound to work under conditions
approved by their representatives. The representatives are
certainly not bound, as under the
statutes they may be chosen
from outside the group of employees. If the employer is bound
by the results of collective bargaining, his condition is certainly
not to be explained on any traditional principle of contract law.
In its present stage “collective
bargaining” law is principally
negative. The employer must not
thwart group action on the part
of his employees by individual arrangements, by coercion, by interference, even benevolent interference in the affairs of their
organizations, and he must not
refuse to recognize their representatives or to sit down with
them for negotiations of the
standard basis of individual employment.
Of course, compulsion to
bargain collectively, however
likely it may be to lead to peaceful agreement, is by no means
synonymous with compulsion to
reach an agreement. It is theoretically possible to comply with
any number of mechanical provisions that the law lays down
with no intention to yield an inch
in the course of negotiations.
The task of the law is, therefore,
twofold. On the negative side it
must set the stage for collective
bargaining by preventing interferences with such machinery as
it sets up. On the positive side,
it must actually encourage honest efforts to reach conclusions
in good faith. Both of these objectives are more easily stated
and accepted in principle than

worked out m detail. Hence in
accordance with the general
legislative tendency of the day,
an administrative commission is
called into being with a broad
discretion both in rule making
and in enforcement. Needless to
say, the process entrusted to
them is complicated and delicate
beyond the aid of precedents
and, after all is said and done, it
cannot take the place of the actual haggling for points and positions that is implicit in bargaining.

II. ADMINISTRATIVE
REGULATIONS IN BUSINESS

1. Development
of Government Regulation
Most important among the
forces that have produced administrative law are the growing
complexity of both government
and business. The demands
made on government by business were comparatively few and
simple when our Constitution
was adopted a hundred and fifty
years ago. In small communities
people bought from manufacturers whom they knew personally. They dealt with bankers with
whom they had grown up as
neighbors. They employed relatives and acquaintances and invested in enterprises carried on
under their very eyes. Unfortunate members of society,
whether the victims of sickness,
old age, hard times or their own
folly, were taken care of by their
relatives, by private charities and
in rare instances by the state, or
they suffered. A few types of occupation were regulated or at
least subject to particular rules
of law: thus interest rates were
vigorously limited and the price
of bread and a few other necessities were here and there fixed
by statute. In most situations,
however, it was not only customary but quite reasonable to expect competition and the ordinary vigilance of the buying public to reward business virtue and
to eliminate fraud, incompetence, overreaching, irresponsibility, adulteration of products,

www.suspicions.com

traffic in deleterious foods,
avoidable dangers, unfairness
and oppression from business
life. This expectation became
less and less reasonable. Middlemen separated the manufacturer from the consumer. Boards
of directors and managers separated corporate owners from corporate employees. Great distances as well as complicated
forms of organizations separated
investors from the uses to which
their investments were put. Employment became a touch and go
relation. It began to dawn on the
country some time after the Civil
War that unless organized society would appoint agents to inspect and certify goods, examine and license persons, standardize and approve practices,
acquire and make public information on many subjects, regulate businesses charged peculiarly with a public interest, and
itself take over some functions
for which private industry
seemed inadequate, it would effectively be taking the side of the
worst elements in business
against the best. Competition
which had operated to raise standards under simpler conditions
would in blinder and less personal situations tend to drive out
the better, more expensive standards. This discovery is not to be
credited to any single political
party or labeled as the “New Deal”
of any particular year. It has been
a slow, continuous growth, the
result of endless struggles and
compromise, the work of men
who had neither the time nor the
aptitude to make the philosophy
behind their acts articulate or
ever consistent. In all these years
administrative control of business has generally been defended not as a good rule but as
a series of proper exceptions.
Today there is a tendency to justify administrative law as a rule
because the complexity of business calls for a more intimate
study of details and adjustment

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

What has been said of the
administrative refuge of the law
in connection with the labor frontier may serve as an introduction
to the more general problems of
administrative law in relation to
business. Brave words were used
in the nineteenth century about
the freedom of all Americans to
engage in any ordinary business
or occupation without let or hindrance from any superior authority. Various traditions combined
to insist on a “government of
laws and not of men.” The due
process clauses of our constitutions were popularly and judicially interpreted as inconsistent
with much that the twentieth
century complacently accepts as
Administrative Law. Furthermore
the division of the functions of
government among legislative,
executive and judicial branches
implicit in all of our constitutions, state and Federal, and explicit in some, has made it somewhat difficult to classify Administrative Commissions either as
belonging to one of these
branches or as being a combination of several. Furthermore, a
doctrine prohibiting the delegation of legislative power had to
be reckoned with wherever
administrative discretion was

enlarged into a rule-making
power. That administrative law
has developed to its present proportions, in spite of these prejudices and restrictions, is the fact
that concerns us most here. It betokens a pressing necessity
which knew no law. In the contemplation of this frontier of
business law we should, therefore, consider the nature of this
necessity and the question of its
likelihood to continue to grow or
to diminish.

81

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

of means to ends than is possible
either in a legislature or a court.

82

2. Interpretation of Business
Regulation by Government
This survey points in the direction of continued development of administrative law in
business for some time to come.
From a practical point of view it
means that the business man’s
rights and duties may be subject
to the discretion of commissions
and officers in such matters as
obtaining the original charter,
license, certificate of convenience and necessity, franchise,
permit or certificate without
which he cannot begin operations, for the terms under which
he may offer or advertise his securities or otherwise raise the
money needed in his undertaking, for the terms of his relations
with employees, bankers, customers, creditors, injured employees, public utilities and common carriers, for calculation of
his taxes, for building permits,
for approval of his safety devices
and sanitary equipment, to say
nothing of the indirect power
exercised by commissioners who
may lay down the terms under
which the government will do
business with a business man,
or who may enter into competition with private business or
grant or withhold government
aids, obvious or subtle. Of
course, the discretion of such
officers or commissions is not
absolute or final in all cases. It
must be a properly “canalized”
discretion; it must not be exercised arbitrarily, it must not be
exercised in an “unstatutory”
manner and the statute under
which it is claimed must not be
unconstitutional. Furthermore,
the findings of such an administrative body on law are subject
to attack in court; its findings on
fact-questions are generally
made subject to such attack
though they need not be; and
only its decisions involving a

genuine choice of policy within
a range of flexibility set by statute, are generally subject to no
judicial review. Furthermore as
administrative law is taking
shape and developing standards
for opportunities to be heard, the
quasi-judicial functions of administrative bodies tend to be isolated and made more like judicial procedure. The American Bar
Association is on record in favor
of a system of administrative
courts, distinct from ordinary
courts and also from quasi-legislative bodies. It has been suggested, with some plausibility
that a course of development
parallel to that by which Equity
became a part of the English system of the administration of justice, may make administrative
law in America an auxiliary
branch of the administration of
justice as it has been in fact in
Continental Europe for a century.
On the other hand, it must be observed that points administratively developed have been taken
over into statute or common law.
Furthermore since the very existence of administrative law implies a kind of abdication on the
part of courts and legislatures,
it is important to note the fact
that both courts and legislatures
have from time to time staged
restorations to temporarily abandoned parts of their authority.

III. THE FUTURE OF
CORPORATIONS
1. Blind Spots in Corporate
Structure
The last of our frontiers of
business law singled out for survey is in the field of organization
and particularly that part of it
which concerns the future of the
corporations. We have already
traced the increasing complexity of corporate organization
since the classical period of fifty
years ago. What concerns us now

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

is that this complexity has created what might be called a huge
blind spot in corporate affairs.
Contributing factors to this blind
spot already discussed are the
contractual deviations from traditional understandings between
the stockholder and the corporation, the holding company or
series of holding companies that
stand between the investor and
the subsidiary company or companies in which his money is
used, the magnitude and scattered location of enterprises controlled by nation-wide corporations, the complication of intercorporate relations often concealed rather than revealed in
long leases, mortgages, interlocking directorate arrangements and gentlemen’s agreements, and fin ally the antiquated accounting that was no
doubt ample for the needs of the
simpler days in which it was crystallized. No single easy method
can be devised to illuminate the
blind spot adequately, as the difficulty is inherent in the situation. Thus the so-called blue sky
laws that aim to make the initial
sale of a security honest (fraud
acts), or reasonably clear (publicity acts), or sound (licensing
acts), do not carry with them any
warranty as to later developments. Furthermore, if publicity
is relied upon and details are
piled on details in a public record
only the expert can read the reports understandingly and, after
all is said and done, all that can
be recorded or published is past
fact, whereas the goodness or
badness of an investment depends on unascertainable future
fact. Obviously, there is a connection between future probability
and past fact, but it is not one
that can be reduced to mathematical formulae.
2. Divergence
between Corporate Fiction
and Business Fact
Another source of confusion

one of Henry VIII’s attempted
abolition of the practice of holding land for the use of another
so as to facilitate his handling of
church and monastery lands.
A somewhat similar effect
may be aimed at in certain tax
measures. The abolition of the
practice of accepting consolidated returns for closely affiliated corporations may force certain companies to change their
structure so as to be able to deduct the book losses of one part
of an enterprise from the book
gains showed by another. A more
direct attack on one front of the
problem is shown in various attempts to stiffen the liability of
directors in the hope of ousting
directors who do not direct. Unfortunately, such efforts, particularly in certain blue sky laws including the Federal Security and
Exchange Legislation, sometimes act as a boomerang by inducing the resignation of responsible directors and the substitution of persons of doubtful financial responsibility. Another attack on the problem consists of
imposing liabilities not only on
directors and officers but on
those who control their actions.
The problem, however, is not a
simple one so long as the theory
of corporate structure is too inflexible to permit its reshaping
to correspond with business realities.
3. Substitutes
for Incorporation
Business has, of course, attempted to escape from some of
the rigid requirements of the
corporate pattern by experimenting with devices calculated
to bestow some of the benefits
of incorporation without the burdens. The joint-stock company,
various kinds of dormant and
secret partnerships, the Massachusetts Trust and various elaborate contracts that purport on
their face to be leases, mortgages or even sales, are the re-

www.suspicions.com

sult. In most of these situations
the advantage is precarious. If
the courts are lenient the legislature is likely to take the matter
up as in the provisions for taxing unincorporated associations
along with corporations. On the
other hand legislatures have authorized under protective conditions various kinds of partnerships with more or less limited
liability and other corporate advantages. These statutes may
perhaps be regarded as representing a stage in the evolution
of something between the partnership and the corporation for
moderate-sized business, preserving the flexibility and freedom of the former and yet giving the advantages of the latter
under safeguards that may be
adequate though not so cumbersome in theory or practice.
4. Federal Incorporation
and Licensing
The impact of the Federal
Government on the careers of
corporations raises one of the
most serious problems on the
business horizon. Heretofore
corporations have been, with the
important exception of national
banks and a few exceptions of
far less importance to business,
state-creatures that stood before
the Federal Government fullgrown. They were not citizens to
be sure but they were persons,
and as such entitled to protection under the Constitution
against being deprived of property without due process of law.
They even acquired one important prerogative of citizenship,
the right to resort to Federal
courts on the ground of diversity
of citizenship. The courts benevolently closed their eyes to
obvious facts and indulged in the
fiction that a corporation was
necessarily made up of citizens
of the state from which it held a
charter. In any event as persons,
corporations were subject to a
good deal of Federal control as

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

in corporate affairs is to be found
in the divergence between various parts of the corporate fiction
and the realities of business. The
corporation takes over from its
governmental prototype, the
specially chartered company of
early modern times, a great many
of the features of a state or city.
Its “officers” are “elected” and in
many jurisdictions must take an
oath of office to qualify. Voting,
meetings, official records, the
official seal, the doctrine of “ultra vires” — all reflect this origin. For most corporations this
machinery is too heavy and cumbersome and elaborate for daily
use. For some it is too simple.
Thus, it is possible generally to
draw two organization charts,
one stating the business understandings and the other the legal theory of interrelations of
parts. The contract between
them may reveal that the directors are “dummies,” or bankers’
representatives, the president a
mere employee, the treasurer the
virtual owner, those who have
lent money on bonds the actual
investors, or certain stockholders mere money lenders. Particular contracts with other corporations or employees may upon
examination be as fundamental
as charters or by-laws, so-called
surplus may really be working
capital; a subsidiary may be the
thing for which the parent corporation exists—there is nothing
unique about the President’s discovery of “a four-inch tail wagging a ninety-six inch dog.” It is
unfair to jump to the conclusion
that there is any abuse involved
in these situations, though it
may be demonstrable that by
leading to confusion they facilitate fraud, and there may be occasions where the confusion has
been deliberately heightened for
sinister purposes. Sweeping proposals to abolish holding companies of all kinds or holding companies in particular industries
such as public utilities, remind

83

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

84

well as protection. With minor
exceptions they were gradually
brought under the Federal Bankruptcy Acts. Their interstate commerce was as fully a Federal matter as was that of natural persons. Hence the anti-monopoly
laws affected them and since
nothing so big as an effective
monopoly could be thought of
without incorporation, it might
be said that the anti-monopoly
laws were made with these statecreatures directly in mind. Nevertheless the mystery of their
creation was no part of Federal
jurisprudence. Chief Justice
Marshall had declared that their
charters constituted contracts
with states; but states in the
course of a century had pretty
well overcome the results of the
Dartmouth College case by the
insertion of the “alter, amend, or
repeal” clause in specific charters, in general statutes and even
in their constitutions. A changed
attitude of the Federal Government is discernible chiefly in the
Securities and Exchange Legislation. By the use of the interstate
commerce and postal powers
Congress seeks to take a controlling hand in the issue and marketing of corporate securities.
There is, furthermore, in the
“death sentence” legislation
against holding companies for
public utilities and in the control
assumed over the financing and
organization of railroads engaged in interstate commerce,
and in the amendments to the
Bankruptcy Act providing for the
reorganization of corporations,
an unmistakable indication of

increasing congressional interest
in the structure of corporations.
Proposals have been seriously
considered in Congress both for
Federal chartering and for Federal licensing of all corporations
engaged in interstate commerce.
Furthermore Congress has
experimented in its tax legislation with dictating a dividend
policy to corporations. Curiously
enough at the very moment that
it begins to frown upon subsidiary corporations it uses a parallel device, the government-controlled corporation for an untold
variety of purposes that would a
few years ago have been
achieved through government
bureaus. Some of these are federally chartered as well as authorized by Federal laws. Most of
them receive their charters from
states.
Much can be said in favor of
the extension of Federal authority over corporations. The failure
of the states to take steps to
make their laws on the subject
uniform, the freedom with which
corporations cross state-borders,
the actual practice of some of the
“liberal” states to spawn corporations for the obvious purpose
of engaging in business elsewhere, the tremendous need of
simplification and standardization of the relations entered into
by the purchaser of stock with
their corporations and with the
public, suggest the desirability
of Federal action. On the other
side, of course, every argument
that has ever been put forward
for the preservation of States
rights may be expected to be put

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

forward most emphatically by
billions of dollars of vested interests that may fear serious interruption to or even cessation
of their authority to do business
if the power of life and death over
corporations is centered in Washington. If any prophecy may be
ventured in such a titanic
struggle of interests, it would
probably be in the direction of
increasing Federal activity in
those matters which resemble
the issuance of securities in their
nationwide interest. If Federal
incorporation comes it will probably for a long time be optional
and rather in the nature of an
additional franchise than as a
substitute for State incorporation. Meanwhile the efforts
in the direction of simplification
and unification of State corporation laws are the order of the day
in the business world.

1

National Labor Relations
Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel
Corp., 301 U.S. 1; National Labor
Relations Board v. Fruehauf Trailer
Co., 301 U.S. 49; National Labor
Relations Board v. Friedman-Harry
Marks Clothing Co., 301 U.S. 58
(1937).
2
3

41 U.S. 865 (1842).

Erie Railroad Company v.
Harry J. Tompkins, 58 S. Ct. 817
(1938).

Appendix: Principal Uniform Laws
Affecting Business Transactions

The Negotiable
Instruments Law
An Act to Make Uniform the
Law of Negotiable Instruments
TITLE 1.—NEGOTIABLE
INSTRUMENTS IN GENERAL

www.suspicions.com

though the time of happening be
uncertain.
An instrument payable upon
a contingency is not negotiable,
and the happening of the event
does not cure the defect.
Section 5.—An instrument
which contains an order or promise to do any act in addition to
the payment of money is not negotiable. But the negotiable character of an instrument otherwise
negotiable is no