

Introduction
Business Law is not in the Anglo-American
system a clearly separable layer of law. It is made
up of any and all propositions from every part
of the constitutions, statutes and decisions—to
which must be added administrative orders and
decrees and legally recognizable customs—that
may be pertinent to any business situation. And
as the term “business” itself is rather expansive,
we may start with the assumption that no proposition in the law books can be dogmatically ruled
out of the scope of business law. For convenience, however, we may recognize at once certain divisions of the law as more or less likely to
be involved in the everyday pursuits connected
with earning a livelihood. We may thus set aside
as beyond the scope of this volume the whole
of public law (Vol. III), of criminal law (Vol. II), of
family law (Vol. VI, Part II), of property law (Vol.
V), and even much of torts and contracts (Vol.
VI, Part I). There remains a good deal of the law
of contracts, particularly the contracts of buyer
and seller, of employer and employee, of borrower and lender, of insurer and insured, of carrier and passenger or shipper, of the parties to
negotiable paper and of the members of a business organization. There remains, too, a great
deal that is not simply contractual in the sense
of being based on consent, but, rather, is dictated by authority, about the conditions of the
market, about credit, about business organization.
Many of these matters are covered by separate commercial codes in countries where the
law is codified. Hence on the continent of Europe the courts, courses, books and periodicals
devoted to Commercial Law have artificial
boundaries within which prominent places are
occupied by the law of Negotiable Instruments,
Partnership and Corporations, and a great deal
of ingenuity is developed in distinguishing between the transactions and persons that fall
within the purview of the commercial code and
those which are to be judged by the general
code.
It is no mere accident that the Anglo-American system insists that all persons are governed
by one law, whether they be “merchants” or not.
That matter was fought out in England in the
seventeenth century. Prior to that time the King’s
Courts had taken little notice of the disputes of
merchants. They were handled in petty special
courts, such as the Court of the Fairs. In the

www.suspicions.info

early seventeenth century Lord Coke, Chief Justice of the King’s Bench, by his decisions, his
writing; and his political activity, succeeded in
reducing these petty courts to insignificance and
in transferring their jurisdiction to the King’s
Courts, and reducing their “laws” to recognizable “customs.” As late as 1622 Gerard Malynes
informs us that these customs apply only to
merchants. A “gentleman” cannot be a party to
commercial paper. But before the end of the
century the courts are telling us that whoever
signs such paper becomes ad hoc a trader.1 Between these two views lie several generations
during which Englishmen are superseding foreigners as merchants. So the Courts Merchant
are suppressed, but the law merchant becomes
part of the law of the land for everybody, and
merchants are subject to the fused law of which
their old customs are but a part.
This rule of one law for all was quite acceptable in the eighteenth century, particularly on
this side of the Atlantic where it fitted well not
only with political prejudices but also with social and economic facts. In pioneer life,
When Adam dolve, and Eve span,
Who was then the gentleman?

1

Witherley v. Sarsfield, Court of King’s Bench,
1689. 1 Shower 125; Carthew 82. (L.B.P., p. 46.)
2 Lincoln

v. Gay, 164 Mass. 537 (1895).

3 Hardin

v. Grant, 54 S.W.2d 189 (1932).

4

For note on abbreviations, see Volume I. In
this volume the additional abbreviation “LB.P.”
refers to the author’s “Law in Business Problems,”

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Likewise, who was the artisan, who the
trader, who the farmer and who the professional
man? Obviously, the division of persons into
such classes for legal purposes would not have
corresponded to the facts of life. So the doctrine of the equality of all men was written into
our fundamental law. Our constitutions have
condemned as “class legislation” all attempts to
deal with one occupation in a special way unless they showed the clearest justification or,
better still, were phrased in generalizations
which negatived discrimination even while they
singled out instances on the basis of a recognizable principle.
Still, subtle influences were at work in the
nineteenth century to develop in our law a new
differentiation between traders and the general
public and among traders themselves. These influences operated principally through reading
implications into contracts. The person regularly
engaged in a business was understood to have
made certain representations to the public as
to his skill. It was one thing for a charwoman to
sew a dress inside out, and quite another for a
professional dressmaker to do so.2 It is one
thing for an iceman, who genially agrees to take
your trunk to the railroad station, to mishandle
it, and quite another for the regular expressman to do so.3 In recent years the difference

between the professional and the amateur in
business has been emphasized by statutes—
statutes requiring licenses and sometimes examinations before one can hang out a shingle;
statutes pertaining to particular businesses, in
spite of their general terminology; statutes singling out particular businesses (in spite of the
constitutional prejudice in favor of generality),
either on the score of police power or the state’s
right to regulate public utilities and other businesses affected with a public interest, or because
of a peculiar opportunity of the state to bargain
through its power to withhold or give conditionally a charter or franchise or other privilege. It
is thus possible today, once more to speak not
only of a law of business in a narrow sense, but
also of the law of special businesses such as
banking, public utilities, stock brokerage, real
estate brokerage, retailing, chain stores, advertising, insurance, or even peddling, plumbing
or conducting a beauty parlor.
The scope of our present study is, of course,
broader. We include the activities of the market
place, the factory, the bank, the exchange, the
office, the directors’ room, the stockholders’
meeting, and we even look into the court and
the public administrative office when these are
the situs of business transactions. Our order of
procedure will deviate somewhat from that usually pursued in books on business law. Instead
of enumerating what the law provides in the way
of rules, standards, principles and institutions
and leaving their application to business needs
to be dealt with as an afterthought—thus beginning with an answer and seeking appropriate questions—we shall proceed to ask what are
the requirements of business and then turn to
the law to see what it has to offer for their satisfaction. This is, of course, the order of procedure in life, when the business man brings his
problem to the lawyer.4

3

Contents
2 Introduction

20 III.

7 I. Business Postulates & the Law
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Law, a Development of Civilization
Conditioning Forces
Limitations upon Law for Business Ends
Enumeration of Business Ends of Law
Development of Ends of Law
Business Postulates of Today
(1) Facilitation of Transactions
(2) Fair Market Conditions
(3) Security of Acquisitions
(4) Effective Enforcement and Peace

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

12 II. The Law of the Market

4

I. Dishonest Marketing
1. Misrepresentation of Goods
2. Breach of Warranty
3. Reforms in Laws to Prevent Dishonesty
II. Monopolistic Practices
1. Development of Anti-monopolistic Laws
2. Innovations in Anti-trust Laws
(1) Contracts in Restraint of Trade
(2) Prevention of Monopolistic Practices
(3) Rule of Reason in Interpretation of Laws
(4) Support by Evidence
(5) Unfair Method of Competition
3. Anti-competitive Legislation
4. Extension of “Unfair Competition”
to Special Cases
(1) General Aspects of
“Unfair Competition” Recognized by Law
(2) Trade Symbols
(a) Selling or Licensing of Trade Symbols
(b) Preservation of Trade Names
(c) Registration of Trade Names
(d) Boundaries of Articles
Covered by Trade Symbols
(e) Similarity of Trade Symbols
(f) Absence of a Technical Trade-mark
(3) Names of Patented Articles
(a) Expiration of Patent
(b) Similarity of Manufacturers’ Names
III. Licensing to Prevent Incompetence
or Irresponsibility

Suspicions News Magazine

Market Facilities

I.

The Use of Contracts
1. Development of the Law of Contracts
2. Freedom of Contract
3. In Absence of Agreement to Contrary
4. Advantages of Standardized Contracts
5. Disadvantages of Standardized Contracts
II. Uniform Sales Law
1. Standardized Contract
of the Uniform Sales Act
2. Special Stipulations
in Individual Contracts of Sale
3. Implied Warranties
(1) Absence of Provision for the Middleman
(2) Warranties Applicable
to Consumer-Purchaser
(3) Use of Trade Name and Warranty
4. Rules Vesting Title in the Buyer
5. Deviations from the Sales Act—
Special Sales Agreements
III. Specially Regulated Contracts
1. Substantive Law of Insurance
(1) Contracts Overweighted
against the Consumer
(2) Weeding Out of Irresponsible
Insurance Companies
2. Public Utilities
(1) Making of Rates
(a) Fairness of Particular Rates
(b) Remuneration to the Investors
(2) Factors Which Constitute a Proper Rate Base

26 IV.Security of Transactions
1. Insecurity of Transactions after Completion
(1) Illegal Selling of Another’s Property
(2) Caveat Emptor
(3) Limitation on Rights and Powers
of Owner over Innocent Possessor
2. Principles of the Law of Transactions
(1) Negotiability of Instruments
and Its Extensions
(2) Agency and Its Extensions
(3) Transfer to Innocent Purchaser of
Voidable Title or One Having Incumbrance
(4) Recording of Documents
(5) Presumption of Regularity
of Acts in Business

www.suspicions.info

31 V. Business Property
1. “Business Property” Defined
2. Protection of Business Property
(1) Trade-marks and Trade Names
(2) Existing Contracts
(3) Protection of Goodwill
(a) Definition of Goodwill
(b) Agreements in the Sale
of a Business or Practice
(c) Agreement Not to Compete
(d) Protection of Goodwill
from Agent or Employee
(e) Protection from the Middleman; Refills
(4) Intangibles As Business Assets
(a) Recognition by Law
(b) Situs for Taxation of Intangibles
(c) Valuation of Intangibles

35 VI. Credit
I.

II. Devices for Safeguarding and Facilitating Credit
1. Fundamental Ideas in Safeguarding Credit
2. Credit from the Business Point of View
(1) Personal Security
(a) Guaranty
(b) Suretyship
(c) Endorsement
or Other Signing of Commercial Paper
(d) Indemnity and Del Credere Agency
(2) Real Security
(a) Possessory Holds
(b) Title Holds
(c) Real Estate Mortgages
(d) Chattel Mortgage
(e) Lease with Privilege of Purchase
(f) Trust Receipt
(g) Mechanic’s Lien
3. Negotiable Instruments
(1) Promissory Notes
(2) Checks

50 VIII. Organization
I.

Desiderata
1. Motives of Unification
2. Motives of isolation
3. Endurance of a Business Organization . .
4. Methods of Organization
5. Problems of Organization

61 IX.Organization (Continued)
II. The Historic Legal Materials
1. Devices Used in Organization
(1) Agency
(2) Contract
(3) Partnership
(4) Corporation
(5) Trusteeship
2. Modification of Organization Devices .
3. Inter-unital Organizations
4. Business Man’s versus
Lawyer’s Organization

Ü
www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Ordinary Enforcement Machinery
1. Procedural Law and Business
2. Action in Court
(1) Steps in Procedure
(2) Pleading
(3) The Jury
(4) Evidence
(a) Three Principles
(b) The Principles of Competency .
3. Slow Legal Procedure
(1) Advantages and Disadvantages
(2) Cumbersome Machinery
for Collecting Judgments
(a) Exemptions
(b) Bankruptcy
4. To Make Obligations Secure
(1) Contractual Modification
of Procedural Law
(2) Resort to Arbitration

40 VII. Credit (Continued)

5

65 X. Organization (Continued)
III. Substantive Law
1. Formation of the Relations
(1) Agency
(2) Partnership
(3) Business Trust
(4) Corporation
2. The External Relations
(1) Responsibility in Agency
(a) Liability of Principal in Contract
(b) Master’s Liability in Tort
(c) Distinction between
Principal’s Liability and Master’s
(d) Undisclosed Principal
(2) Liability in Partnership
(3) Liability’ of a Business Trust
(4) Liability of a Corporation
3. The Internal Relations
(1) Simple Contract
(2) Principal and Agent
(3) Partnership
(4) Business Trust
(5) Corporation
4. Readjustment and Dissolution
(1) Contractual Method
of Reorganization and Dissolution
(2) Dissolution of Corporations
(3) Dissolution of Partnerships
(4) Dissolution of Trusts
(5) Terminative or Conditional Contract
(6) Irrevocable Agency of Partnership .
(7) Termination by Law
(8) Bases for Planning Termination .
(9) Federal Bankruptcy Law
(10) The “Equities”

1. Development of Business Law
2. Future Trend of Law Development
(1) Established Codes of Business Law .
(2) Nation-wide Similarity
of Business Legislation
(a) Statutory Waves .
(b) Federal Legislation
(c) Federal Influences
on State Legislation
(d) Federal Courts and the Common Law
3. Time Element and Business Law
I. Labor Law
1. National Labor Relations Board
2. Collective Bargaining
II. Administrative Regulations in Business.
1. Development of Government Regulation .
2. Interpretation of Business Regulation
by Government
III. The Future of Corporations
1. Blind Spots in Corporate Structure
2. Divergence between Corporate Fiction
and Business Fact
3. Substitutes for Incorporation
4. Federal Incorporation and Licensing

Appendix - Principal Uniform Laws
Affecting Business Transactions
85 Negotiable Instruments Law
99 Uniform Partnership Act
108 Uniform Limited Partnership Act

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

6

77 XI. Frontiers of Business Law

113 Uniform Sales Act

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

Chapter I

Business Postulates
& the Law
in a shop with reasonable safety,
and although we occasionally
read of holdups showing the danger of such an assumption, we
go on making it. Why? Is it because of our faith in the habits
of mankind, or in the workings
of the legal system, or some doctrine of chance, or because of our
own recklessness, or a combination of all of these? The question
becomes infinitely more complicated if, for such elementary human interests as security from
holdups, we substitute the vast
network of relations that we call
the credit system, which is another of the postulates of modem
business.
Without going far into the
analysis of the basis of any one
of these expectations, we may
venture two propositions: first,
that the legal system of any given
time or place contributes heavily
to the fulfillment of our expectations; and second, that the legal
system is by no means alone in
this function. The first of these
propositions is, of course, generally taken for granted. It is our
purpose here not to prove it, but
to find out just how the law
comes to the aid of the business
world. The second proposition,
however, is very generally overlooked. Legal specialists talk oc-

www.suspicions.com

casionally as if the sole deterrent
from crime in the world today
were criminal law.1 Little wonder, then, that the layman looks
to the law to accomplish singlehanded the greatest of wonders,
and in turn criticizes the law for
its failure to do that which he
gratuitously assumes, in the first
place, it can do. When anything
goes wrong he says: “There
ought to be a law against this or
that.” He expects a legislative fiat
to make men moral, to make men
sober, to make men efficient. We
must, therefore, emphasize the
limits of effective legal action.2
When it actually was necessary
to look behind every tree for a
possible Indian, the best code in
the world could not have done
away with that necessity any
more than we can today put an
end to war by such a simple device as declaring it unlawful. Yet
with the aid of law and a hundred other elements we have succeeded in reaching a measure of
internal peace and we may hope
to achieve a corresponding measure of world peace eventually.
The point is that law does not
and cannot work alone. The development of law is but a phase
of the development of civilization. And when we speak of the
part played by law in the satisfy-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

1. Law,
a Development of Civilization
As we go about our daily
business we take a great deal for
granted. If we had to look behind
every tree, figuratively or literally,
for a lurking Indian, we could
hardly do the work of the modem
world. We assume a high degree
of safety; we assume a high degree of human trustworthiness;
we assume that those about us
will act in a reasonable and fairly
predictable manner; and the vast
majority of these assumptions
are well founded. At least, we are
not often disappointed.
If we analyze these expectations or postulates on which
modern business is based, we
find very readily that they are
simple only to the simple
minded. We discover that they
differ not only in different times
and places and among different
races of men, but that they are
by no means all equally safe assumptions nor are they founded
on identical or even similar
bases. In fact, the explanation of
even the simplest and most obvious of these assumptions,
upon analysis, becomes a hopelessly complex problem of the
social and natural sciences. We
take it for granted, for example,
that a man can expose his wares

7

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

ing of the postulates of business,
we must bear in mind that it does
not satisfy those postulates
single-handed or exclusively. It
is neither without allies nor without rivals.

8

2. Conditioning Forces
Nor is it without conditioning forces. Just as the business
activities of the world take for
granted certain conditions, including the cooperation of the
law, the law itself has certain
postulates. The current legal system assumes, for example, that
people take a certain amount of
initiative in turning the wheels
of justice and, on the other hand,
that they will restrain themselves
just so much from interfering
with this machinery. The system
must break down completely—
and does occasionally even in
this country—not only where initiative is lacking because of indifference or fear, but also where
masked mobs, or the parties to
a “feud,” or even willful juries
take “justice” into their own
hands. The law, furthermore, presupposes a certain degree of
ability to understand the law—it
has been found futile at several
stages of history to transfer a
highly developed code to a crude
people. A law that penalized lying to the very limit would hardly
work in a community of confirmed liars. Our primary concern, however, is not with what
a system of law must take for
granted—though we cannot ignore the bearing of this question
on the law’s limitations—but
with what business expects and
demands from the law.
3. Limitations upon Law
for Business Ends
Furthermore, we must recognize that other aspects of our
life, besides the business aspect,
make demands upon the law. In
the main, these demands are fortunately not only consistent with
but identical with the demands

of the business world. Peace, fair
and honest dealings, and the enforcement of obligations, for example, might be demanded in
the name of society, organized
on its political side, just as
readily as by that same society
thought of as a “business unit.”
There are, of course, differences
of emphasis, occasional differences in the limitations set, and
even rare contradictions. Thus,
business if left to itself might
never have invented homestead
exemptions as a limitation to enforcement laws. It is conceivable,
but not quite probable, that the
enforcement of debts by means
of imprisonment might have
been abolished by the business
world as unprofitable in the long
run, without the aid of the
humanitarian considerations
that were perhaps uppermost in
the actual abolition of imprisonment for debt. So far, however,
as we find conflicting demands
made upon the law in the name
of human interests other than
business, we shall have to take
them into consideration as limitations upon the use of law for
business ends.
4. Enumeration
of Business Ends of Law
What, then, are these business ends? Or, to resume the formal question with which we began, what does the business
world demand or more or less
thoughtlessly expect of the law
today? It has been demonstrated
with abundant learning by Dean
Pound that the “end” of law,
viewed both practically and theoretically, has been developing
throughout the course of legal
history.3 The earliest end discernible was a mere attempt to
keep the peace. In later states we
encounter first the maintenance
of an actual status quo and later
the struggle for some ideal set
of relations known as equity or
justice or natural fights. Today
we are stressing a fourth type of

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

end, and emphasis is shifted to
the satisfaction of human wants
and particularly to the opportunity for development.
It must be remembered, however, that in all of these developments the earlier ends of the law
have by no means been abandoned as the later ones have
emerged. The maintenance of
peace, the security of acquisitions, the approximation of what
appears to society for the time
being as natural justice or fairness, stand side by side today
with the insuring of human opportunities for development and
advancement. If we would restate
these general ends of the law
more narrowly in terms of what
the business world seeks, we
should still have to enumerate as
major ends: (1) peace and effective enforcement; (2) security of
acquisitions; (3) fair conditions
in the market, and, in addition
to these, (4) the facilitation of
transactions. Of course, the
meaning of all the older terms
has developed very materially as
time has gone on. The peace of
the Anglo-Saxon world, such as
it was, would not suffice for the
needs of the modern business
world. Neither would the enforcement machinery of the Middle
Ages. The kinds of acquisitions
that may be deemed the subject
of legal protection have multiplied and are changing even today. Some of the most important
developments of the law of recent years are concerned with
the growing concept of fair conditions in the market. But in the
main, it is true that the principal
accomplishment of the last half
century in the realm of business
law has been the development of
facilities and positive opportunities for the specific transactions
that constitute business.
5. Development
of Ends of Law
All these accomplishments of
the law are so thoroughly and

6. Business Postulates
of Today
For the purpose of fitting
these postulates into the picture
of business as it is conducted
today, we might pursue the opposite order to that of their historical development and consider some characteristics of the
need today for (1) facilitation of
transactions, (2) fair market conditions, (3) security of acquisitions, and (4) effective enforcement and peace.
(1) FACILITATION OF TRANSACTIONS. Typical of the transactions for which we expect the

law to furnish ready frameworks
are those transactions that have
to do with the organization of the
business world. Business needs
not merely schemes for summarizing the relations existing between people within a particular
business enterprise—such as
agency, partnership, corporation, or Massachusetts trust—
but also those devices that bring
together cooperating parts of a
business, however separated
they may at first sight seem.
There is every gradation between
the hand-to-mouth buying of raw
materials by one plant from another, through more comprehensive contracts for seasons and
through leases, to the complete
control or even ownership of the
plant furnishing the raw materials. Likewise, on the distributing
side, a vast variety of relations
may exist between the producers and those engaged in the
various steps of marketing. For
all of these relations the law is
called upon to furnish a fitting
framework and under the pressure of American life the law is
just as likely to be called upon
for mass production of frameworks of a more or less standardized nature as our factories are
to give mass production of standardized machinery. Business
presents numerous novel problems of organization calling for
most ingenious massing of traditional devices. Thus, where living conditions in a great city produce vast buildings in which it
becomes desirable to sell individual apartments to families,
the organization of the business
side of the scheme may involve
incorporation with more or less
complicated adjustment of ratios
of control, ownership, return,
and risks which may not correspond exactly to the amount of
investment. It may involve further peculiar types of leases or
deeds or mortgages. The financing may involve mortgages and
trusteeship and the issuance of

www.suspicions.com

bonds or trust certificates in
combinations that had never
been thought of before.
The credit devices of the
modern world must also respond
very delicately to peculiar needs
in particular situations. There is
a constant problem, for example,
to strike a balance somewhere
between the safety of the loan
and the freedom of the business
to which the loan is made from
interference. In a general way,
where real security is used the
more possessory a credit device
is the simpler and safer it seems,
but at the same time the more
likely it is to interfere with the
use of things in the ordinary
course of business. The vast series of new problems connected
with the financing of installment
sales, of which the most prominent example, of course, has
been automobile financing, will
illustrate the type of call that is
made upon the law for new machinery or for new combinations
of the old machinery of credit.4
There is, of course, a vast
variety of more or less typical
transactions that make up the
bulk of everyday business. The
type of framework furnished for
them is perhaps best illustrated
in our statutes standardizing
contracts of sale, the contracts
involved in negotiable instruments, insurance contracts, employment contracts, and many
others, by stipulating what the
details shall be either in the absence of contrary stipulation or
any agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.5 New varieties
of transactions are constantly
emerging for which new types of
contracts are required. Thus,
with the coming of new modes
of transportation, whether we
turn to the period of the introduction of the steam railroad or
that of the motor bus or that of
aviation, new types of receipts
and agreements, with new
apportionments of risks, become
recognized as standard in the

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

readily taken for granted that it
is somewhat difficult for us to
realize that, in the Anglo-American system of law, one need go
back only a few hundred years
to reach a period in which the
king’s courts were not interested
in the private disputes of citizens
so long as they did not affect the
king’s revenue or the king’s
peace. Of course, the allusion to
the king’s revenue and the king’s
peace as the formal basis for taking jurisdiction over private disputes and enforcing private
claims was for a long time a mere
pretense, a fiction of the law. But
the fact that such a fiction had
to be used at the beginning of
modem times should remind us
that, what we take for granted
today when we expect this or
that of the law, was by no means
taken for granted at all stages in
our legal history; that it is by no
means taken for granted in all
parts of the world today, at least
in the same way; and that we
cannot be sure that we have
reached the limit of possible demands to be made upon law in
the furnishing of aids for the conduct of business. We are, in other
words, dealing with a situation
that is constantly developing,
constantly being experimented
with, and not at all with a preordained system of natural law.

9

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

law. In general, the tendency of
business is to require devices for
the facilitation—and constantly
for the greater facilitation—of a
widening circle of business activities. And the law responds,
sometimes through the ingenuity of the lawyers in adapting and
combining the old legal devices,
but occasionally also, with the
aid of legislation, by the creation
of new devices.

10

(2) FAIR MARKET CONDITIONS. The market conditions
that the business world demands
of the law have undergone a complete transformation since the
days of Lord Coke. The picture
of the buyer before the eyes of
the law has ceased to be that of
a very cautious, designing sort
of person well able to take care
of himself. On the contrary, every effort is made by means of
the licensing of dealers and
manufacturers, by means of the
registration and inspection of
products, by blue sky laws, by
imposing penalties for misbranding, adulteration, and
fraudulent advertising, by safeguarding competition and condemning unfair methods of doing business, to make the market safe for purchasers. Let us
contrast the conditions in older
systems of law that looked rather
to the protection of the seller. In
Roman law, for example, there
developed the idea that a seller
could repudiate an extremely
bad bargain though there was no
corresponding provision for a
disillusioned buyer.6 Such law
was, of course, appropriate in a
comparatively non-commercial
society where the selling of
goods outside of the ordinary
course of business was a sign of
distress on the part of the more
or less unwilling and unfortunate
owner. The buyer was looked
upon as a wealthy person taking
advantage of the distress of his
neighbor, much as if he were
lending him money for usury.

This picture has changed completely. The buyer represents
today the average member of
society, while the seller is looked
upon as the party better able to
take care of himself. The development of the modern point of
view in recent times is illustrated
in the development of the law of
implied warranties of quality7 or
of title8 and the disappearance
to that extent of caveat emptor.
The particular details as to
which the public puts a buyer
under its protection are, of
course, constantly changing.
Today the danger is from misbranding, false advertising, inadequately described securities.
Yesterday the emphasis was
rather on the danger of lack of
skill in professional men, mechanics, and others who have
been subjected to licensing laws.
Tomorrow the dangers may be
different and the emphasis may
be shifted to prevent the abuse
of high-powered salesmanship
accompanied by intriguing
installment devices.
(3) SECURITY OF ACQUISITIONS. The idea of security of
acquisitions is, of course, one of
the most important and best developed in the law. It not only fills
the pages discussing real and
personal property, but it is the
motive behind much of the criminal law, the tort law, the family
law and the constitutional law of
this country. In fact, the law is
frequently taunted with the
charge of setting “property”
rights above “human” rights.
What is really meant is the setting out more clearly of rights in
tangible things than rights that
seem to have less and less to do
with tangible things. Medieval
law was so limited in its property
concepts that it could not conceive of transferring such in-corporeal rights as the power of appointment to a church office
without some such act as handing over the knob of the church

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

door. But as time has gone on,
the law has progressively overcome this dread of intangibles
and within the field of business
has accorded the treatment formerly reserved for rights in
physical things to such new
types of “property” as goodwill,
patents, trade-marks, trade
name, copyright, going-concern
value, business reputation, interest in existing contracts, expectancies of various kinds and freedom of action. In addition, it has
curtailed the principle of property protection as formerly understood by developing another
type of interest, namely, the interest in security of transactions.
We shall find many instances in
which a bona fide purchaser acting in the ordinary course of
business has his new acquisition
protected in preference to the
older owner who, though equally
innocent of wrong, has failed to
take the necessary steps to warn
strangers of the nature of his
claim. The varieties of business
interests calling for protections
are infinite.
(4) EFFECTIVE ENFORCEMENT
AND PEACE. What has been said
here at some length regarding
the modern development of the
old concept of security of acquisitions applies, mutatis mutandis, to the still older postulate of
peace. This concept has grown
to include a great deal more than
the official ending of disputes.
The machinery of enforcement
includes not only litigation but
also arbitration and conciliation,
various preventive devices for
anticipating both, and an increasing quantity of contractual
control over adjective law.9 The
kind and degree of peace that are
essential for commercial prosperity at this age are, of course,
vastly different from that which
enabled savage tribes to establish trading posts to which they
would alternately bring their
goods and from which each

would recede a safe distance
while the other was present. But
it also differs in smaller measure
from the condition of commercial peace that was considered
adequate in the pioneer days of
this country, when horse traders
did not feel thoroughly equipped
for their business transactions
unless adequately armed. Nor is
the industrial peace of the early
days of unionism in this country,
when strikes were notoriously
likely to be accompanied by violence, a fair picture of the business needs of these days of
keener competition, greater publicity, and more intense interest
in industrial disputes on the part
of the legislature.
Perhaps the nature of the industrial and commercial peace of
today may best be illustrated by
reference to the exaltation of
“due course” to the level of a
major principle by which transactions are to be judged. It is not
only, as already indicated, that
that which is done in due course
is made to stand. The converse

is equally true. It is on this basis
that a deviation from the simple,
ordinary course of business
comes to be condemned by the
law. Thus, there was until recently nothing unlawful about a
preferential payment of a debt by
an insolvent. Business condemned the practice and now the
National Bankruptcy Act incorporates the business man’s point
of view. There was nothing illegal until recently in a tradesman’s act of selling goods outside of the ordinary course of
business. The business conception of due course has, however,
in spite of considerable resistance, been written into the bulk
sales laws of many jurisdictions.
Many acts that are coming to be
recognized as “unfair methods of
competition” are, in the final
analysis, condemned because
they are contrary to the ordinary
established course of doing
things—breaches of the peace as
the modern business world formulates its requirements of commercial peace.

1Cf.

Train, “The Prisoner at the
Bar,” 1907, Chapter 1.
2

Cf. Pound, “The Limits of
Effective Legal Action,” 22 Pa. Bar
Ass’n Rep. 221 (1916), A. B. A. J.
55 (1916); 27 Internat. J. of Ethics
150 (1916).
3

Compare the chapter
entitled “The End of Law” in
Pound, “Outline of the Course in
Jurisprudence,” 3d ed., 1920, 4055, giving full references, and c. 2,
in Pound, “An Introduction to the
Philosophy of Law,” 1922, reproducing the articles in 27 Harv. L.
Rev. 195, 605 (1914), and 30 ibid.
201 (1917).
48

Corn. L. Q. 199, 210

(1923).
5 27

Yale L. J. 34 (1917).

6

Girard, “Manuel Elementaire
de Droit Romain,” 6th ed., 1918,
552.
7 Williston, “Contracts,”

2d ed.,

1936, IV, Sec. 983.
8 Ibid., Sec.

976.

9

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Isaacs, “Contractual Control
Over Adjective Law,” W. Va. L. Q. 1
(1922); same, “Recent Developments,” 83 U. of Pa. Law Rev. 177
(1934).

11

Chapter II

The Law
of the Market

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

I. DISHONEST MARKETING

12

1. Misrepresentations
of Goods
When the President of the
United States made the now famous pronouncement, “This proposal adds to the ancient doctrine of caveat emptor, the further doctrine, ‘let the seller also
beware,’”1 was he setting a new
force in motion or was he simply
taking his place in a long line of
legal reformers bent on making
the market safe for the buyer? To
answer this question it is necessary only to enumerate the principles to which the overreached
buyer could resort before the
New Deal was written into the
statute books. In the first place,
if the misrepresentation from
which he suffered amounted to
fraud- that is, if it was a misrepresentation of past or present fact,
made knowingly or with reckless
disregard of truth or falsity, under conditions where it tended
to mislead and did mislead the
victim to his hurt— the law
pounced down heavily upon the
seller. He could in all probability
be prosecuted for one of the

crimes of which fraud is an ingredient: false labeling, false
advertising, obtaining goods
under false pretense, larceny by
trick, and so on. Again, he could
be sued for damages by the defrauded party and probably
forced to pay “smart money.” The
contract itself could be set aside
and, under appropriate decrees
of a court of equity, the parties
restored to status quo. Or the
contract could be ignored as a
nullity if that practice best served
the needs of the victim. Finally,
the defrauder might find himself
face to face with the summary
procedure of some arm of preventive justice: a licensing commission ready to suspend his
trading license, an aroused inspector ready to impound or destroy or brand his goods, a publicity bureau ready to announce
his iniquity to the world.
2. Breach of Warranty
Even if the misrepresentation
did not technically amount to
fraud, the lying vendor would not
get off with impunity. Though he
may have innocently believed his
own lie, he may have been guilty

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

of a breach of an express warranty. An “express warranty” is
defined in the Uniform Sales Act
as “any affirmation of fact or any
promise by the seller relating to
the goods... if the natural tendency of such affirmation or
promise is to induce the buyer
to purchase the goods.”2 There
are also implied warranties
where nothing is said. The consequences of a breach of warranty, which is more easily
proved in practice than is fraud,
are, excepting for the penalties
and quasi-penalties, the same as
those of fraud. The disappointed
buyer may keep the goods and
sue for damages, or call the bargain off, or take other steps to
restore the status quo. Obviously
the law did not allow so much
lying as the old by-word suggested.
3. Reforms in Laws to
Prevent Dishonesty
Nevertheless, there were and
are possibilities of unpunished
dishonesty in the market place,
some of which can be more effectively coped with as time goes
on. The reforms of the last gen-

for what he says or otherwise
represents to be true under fraud
and warranty laws that take him
at his word. In addition, there are
numerous laws altogether preventing the sale of harmful
drugs, or at least putting dangerous ones subject to the requirement of a physician’s prescription. There are, furthermore,
standards of purity established
by authority, a comprehensive
United States Pharmacopoeia.
It would be a mistake, however, to attribute all this change
to the internal workings of the
law. The impetus has come from
many sources, including educational campaigns conducted by
medical associations, magazine
publishers, Better Business Bureaus, government departments.
The important point for our consideration is that the law of the
market has been able to respond
to the demand for a higher standard of honesty and has potentialities within it for still higher
standards, as society becomes
ready for them. The “fraud” formula must remain elastic.
What has been said of the
prevention of misrepresentation
applies with little change to the
prevention of other undesirable
conditions and practices in the
market: monopolistic conditions,
“unfair competition,” incompetence, lack of responsibility, and
in general one-sidedness or a
loading of factors against the
buyer. Still, each of these tasks
of the law has its own interesting peculiarities as well as historic accidents meriting separate
attention.
II. MONOPOLISTIC
PRACTICES.
1. Development
of Anti-monopolistic Laws
The laws against monopoly
are very old. In the Middle Ages
there were laws against “forestalling, engrossing and regrat-

www.suspicions.com

ing,” not to mention several subvarieties, the gist of which was
interference with the opportunities of the citizens of a town to
get their needs provided for in
their regular market. The injury
resulting to one citizen from
another’s simple trick of buying
up the day’s supply of foodstuffs
on its way to town was a palpable
one, to be combated regardless
of any theory of the function of
competition in society.3 Actually,
medieval society did not rely on
competition to set the right price
on all its goods and services. It
did not hesitate to name a just
price and a fair wage by decree.
When we turn, however, to the
late nineteenth century revival of
interest in anti-monopoly laws,
we find a society permeated with
the notion that competition is in
itself good, the very life of trade,
and on the whole perhaps adequate for its effective regulation
provided that artificial interference with its workings is not tolerated. It is no part of the function of the law to propound or to
correct economic theories, but it
must serve as the vehicle
through which a society tries to
put its theory into practice.
Since the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act was passed in 1890 there has
been an increasing tendency to
supplement its workings by reliance on regulation, including
price fixing, notably but not exclusively in the fields of railroad
and public utility law. In the National Industrial Recovery Act of
1933, held unconstitutional on
other grounds,4 there was even
a suspension of the workings of
the anti-trust laws in favor of
detailed regulation calculated to
assure the public of the fair treatment that was the, primary objective of the anti-trust laws. With
a changing economic philosophy, or at least a changing degree of faith in the efficacy of
competition, we may expect
more experimental legislation in
the direction of regulation. The

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

eration may be cited to indicate’
the current tendencies. The most
outstanding of these are: First,
a readier assumption by courts
and juries that lies tend to mislead and do mislead. Second, a
host of statutes on phases of
fraud covering such subjects as
false labeling and advertising;
the plain marking of substitutes,
imitations, artificial coloring or
flavoring, the country of origin
of goods; the publishing of the
essential facts pertaining to securities offered for sale; presumptions and burdens of proof
in certain cases, and a tightening of procedure and a stiffening of penalties in others. Third,
the intensive development of
preventive measures against
fraud, including licensing of persons, inspection of products,
publicity, and the extra-judicial
administrative machinery that
goes with preventive justice.
To illustrate all of these tendencies we need only consider
the recent history of patent medicine advertising. One need not
be very old to remember when
the patent medicine man made
unlimited claims for his concoctions of alcohol, herbs and flavoring matter. No one was expected to take him literally,
whether he barked about his
elixir from the tail of his circus
wagon or printed startling pictures labeled “Before Taking” and
“After Taking” in the advertising
columns of the rural magazine.
Hence, two essential elements of
fraud were missing: the tendency
to mislead and the actual misleading. The exaggerations were
glossed over as dealers’ puffing.
Today the vendor of patent medicines has to contend with a Federal Pure Foods and Drugs Act,
quite likely to be strengthened,
a Federal Trade Commission,
fraud orders of the Post Office
Department, the scrutiny of the
radio licensing authorities, the
state advertising laws, and direct
responsibility, criminal and civil,

13

whole agitation for a planned
economy is based on this loss of
faith in the efficacy of competition as a planning force, a
faith which in the nineteenth century was rationalized by paralleling it with the theory of evolution.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

2. Innovations
in Anti-trust Laws
Remembering, then, that the
Sherman Act speaks in terms of
1890, let us examine its innovations.

14

(1) CONTRACTS IN RESTRAINT OF TRADE. Contracts
in restraint of trade were void
according to common law.
Whether combinations in restraint of trade effected otherwise than by contract—for example, by means of trusteeship—
were void was debatable, but we
may assume that even without
the aid of statute the law would
have reached them. Just how serious the restraint had to be in
order to be obnoxious to the law
was debated anew with each case
that reached the courts. Here,
too, we may assume a rule of reason would have developed without the aid of a statute. But to
declare an arrangement void is
to use only one of the “sanctions”
of the law. It does not subject the
perpetrators to a penalty, it does
not lay them open to an action
for damages at the instance of
those whom they have hurt, it
does not provide for undoing
what they have done. These sanctions were provided by the
Sherman Act.
(2) PREVENTION OF MONOPOLISTIC PRACTICES. It was
not until 1914 that the modern
approach of prevention was applied in the Federal anti-trust
laws. In that year not only did the
Clayton Act attempt to nip evil
in the bud by prohibiting practices found likely to contribute
to the upbuilding of monopolies,

but the Federal Trade Commission Act provided for the watchfulness of a commission with
wide discretion to preserve the
proper workings of the competitive system.
(3) RULE OF REASON IN INTERPRETATION OF LAWS. The interpretation of the Federal antitrust act and of the state acts
modeled after it has led to a series of important Supreme Court
decisions that go beyond the
mere verbal logic of ordinary
statutory interpretation. They
have worked out the principle
that it is the substance and not
the form that counts in determining whether a particular combination is illegal. Furthermore,
they have established the rule of
reason, which, stripped of its
verbiage, merely means that by
no means every contract which
restrains trade or limits competition is obnoxious (for in a measure every contract does so), and
that the only standard which the
court can read into the statute
without arbitrariness is the general standard of reasonableness.
(4) SUPPORT BY EVIDENCE.
In reviewing the findings of the
Federal Trade Commission the
court has generally felt unable to
question its finding of fact because of the peculiar wording of
the statute which provides that
such findings shall stand if supported by evidence. Had it said
“the evidence,” the court might
have been called upon to weigh
the evidence itself, but, as it is,
the only question before the
court is whether there was any
evidence to support the finding.
It would be a sorry case indeed
if there were none at all.
The significance of this limitation on the courts is frequently
overlooked by law writers as well
as laymen in interpreting decisions under the Federal Trade
Commission Act. Thus, in the
famous Beech-Nut case,5 which

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

involved the systematic attempt
of a manufacturer to thwart price
cutters (the very aim that is now
upheld by the Miller-Tydings Act6
and similar legislation in most of
our states7), the court had before
it the finding of the Commission
that the manufacturer was guilty
of participating in some kind of
a conspiracy in restraint of trade,
and there was little for the court
to do with that question of fact
officially settled.
(5) UNFAIR METHOD OF
COMPETITION. Partly as a result
of this control given to the Commission, but in part at least with
the encouragement of the court,
the term “unfair method of competition,” the subject of the prohibition of the important fifth
section of the Act, has come to
be looked upon rather paradoxically as the equivalent of undue
interference with competition. In
other words, a clause which, by
necessary implication, recognizes the possibility that there
may be bad competition as well
as good, becomes submerged in
the philosophy which upholds
competition for its own sake. In
the Beech-Nut case, already alluded to, Mr. Justice Holmes is a
voice crying in the wilderness
when he says that the practices
complained of are neither unfair
nor competitive. Thus, the
phrase becomes a blanket authority for enumerating objectionable practices—objectionable principally because they
tend to foster monopoly and because they involve fraud upon
the public—and put them under
an administrative ban.
It was partly owing to this
confusion of terms and the trade
practice conferences that grew
out of it, that the unfortunate
National Industrial Recovery Act
proposed Codes of Fair Competition and that the term was
promptly understood by administrators and business men as
meaning codes prescribing and

proscribing practices with little
or no thought of competition.
Even the Supreme Court in the
Schechter case 8 expressed
doubt, in the face of such practical interpretation, whether the
meaning of the phrase had any
logical connection with the
meanings of the words that composed it. Finally, to remove all
doubt, the language has been
amended in the Federal Trade
Commission Act so as to include
“any unfair method of competition or unfair or deceptive act or
practice in commerce.”9 At the
same time, the scope of the act
has been broadened so as to include a good deal of false advertising regardless of whether injury to a competitor or even the
existence of a competitor can be
shown. The new version of the
Act, therefore, transcends the
limits of an anti-monopoly law.

4. Extension of “Unfair
Competition” to Special Cases
“Unfair competition,” in spite
of the incidental and cavalier
treatment of it as part of the antitrust laws of the country, has a
significance outside of those
laws. It is linked up with trademarks and trade names. In fact,
we may conveniently think of the
term as embracing infringements of trade-marks, trade
names, copyrights, patents, and
other exclusive rights; palming
off goods as those of an-other;
and any other conduct that tends
without legal justification to hurt
the business of a competitor. An
official enumeration would have
the negative value of suggesting
heretofore unimagined tricks,
allowing to each, as to the common-law dog, at least one bite.
The basis on which the aggrieved
competitor or customer or the
government or a commission
may institute a complaint or seek
redress will differ widely in the
above cases which do not belong
in any single legal category, however much they resemble each
other in effect, and however
much the courts and the lawmakers may desire to exclude
that effect from the market place.
To treat of all of them might get

www.suspicions.com

us into such diverse pockets of
the law, as libel, in the case
where one undertaker slyly sent
his competitor’s cards to the
families of sick persons, and corporation law, where deception is
carried out with the aid of a
wholly owned subsidiary which
parades as an independent corporation.
(1) GENERAL ASPECTS OF
“UNFAIR COMPETITION” RECOGNIZED BY LAW. For our purposes,
it will be better at this point to
confine ourselves to those general aspects of unfair competition which the law recognizes,
regardless of the means used,
and add a few comments on the
peculiarities of some of the more
important situations. In general,
the law envisages unfair competition through the eye of the customer or the public, except in
those cases where an exclusive
right has crystallized into a kind
of property for the competitor,
as in true trade-mark, copyright,
or patent. Unless the public is
deceived or a specially protected
right is involved, it is quite possible to annoy or even hurt a
competitor without violating any
law. Thus, my competitor may
copy with impunity my original
plan for selling goods on credit,
or my clever design for a garment, or my well-planned window display, or my combination
offer, so long as he does not
thereby mislead anyone into
thinking that his customer is
dealing with me. Some of these
acts in competition appear quite
unfair to the business man. He
has coined the phrase “design
piracy.” He legislated against it
in the NRA days and he has cooperated with trade associations
and the Fashion Originators’
Guild of America to put it down.13
We may look forward to more
effective protection of ideas in
the future, but the law of unfair
competition as such still bears
the marks of its original aim- the

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

3. Anti-competitive
Legislation
Whether because of a change
of economic philosophy or because of the purely empirical discovery of harms flowing from unrestrained competition, there
have been engrafted on the antimonopolistic acts certain anticompetitive clauses generally
disguised for political reasons as
anti-trust laws. Such disguise is
possible because the competitors whose activities are curtailed
are presumably large competitors on the way to becoming
monopolies. Most noteworthy of
these are the Robinson-Patman
amendment10 to the Clayton Act,
and the fair practice acts culminating in the Miller-Tydings
law.11 The former tends to prohibit the large retailer from utilizing some of his bargaining
power in buying; the latter, to
prohibit him from using his advantages in underselling his
small competitor in certain protected classes of goods. Both
types are at this stage limited
experiments calling for much

administrative implementing,
judicial interpretation, the watching of loopholes and by-passes
open to aggressive competitors,
and legislative amendment. The
new state and Federal laws requiring employers to submit to
collective bargaining with employees12 are also, so far as they
go, anti-competitive in their intent. Whatever social benefits
may be sought by anti-competitive legislation—and there are
many- no law can save us from
paying for these benefits
through higher prices and a sacrifice of the advantages claimed
for intensive competition when
trust-busting was the order of
the day.

15

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

protection of the interest of the
public.

16

(2) TRADE SYMBOLS. (a) Selling or Licensing of Trade Symbols to Others. Another consequence of looking at this branch
of law through the eyes of the
public is manifest in the rule that
a trade-mark or trade name cannot be sold or licensed out in
gross. That is to say, even if I
have created, popularized and
consequently own such a name
as Ivory applied to soap or Red
Cross to mattresses, I cannot
authorize you to use the name
on similar products of yours with
which I have no connection. Familiarity with the practice of licensing by patentees, or the authorization to reprint given by
copyright owners, has frequently
misled business men into the
trap of licensing others to use
their trade symbols. But a trade
symbol is nothing but a shorthand way of telling the public of
your connection with the goods,
and if you are not connected with
them, your licensing another to
use the symbol is merely authorizing him to tell a lie, and this
the law will not countenance.
Just what connection must
one have with the goods to make
an arrangement for the use of his
trade symbol on them proper?
The answer depends on another
question, a shifting question of
business fact: “What does the
trade symbol say to the ordinary
member of the public?” A generation ago the judges were quite
ready with an approximate answer to this business question.
They said that a trade symbol
indicated origin or ownership of
goods. Today a more careful answer is called for. There are, for
example, legitimate dealers’
marks or even brokers’ marks, as
well as manufacturers’, and they
may speak of care in selection,
willingness to warrant, uniformity of grade, or the possession
of some quality suggested by the

name or by an acquired meaning of the name under the force
of usage and advertising. Once
we determine precisely what the
symbol says, we are able to answer our original question:
whether the proper facts are
there to justify a license or a
transfer of the right to use a
name.
(b) Preservation of Trade
Names. The preservation of trade
names as one’s own property
presents a serious and at times
an insuperable problem. Apparently one may lose his exclusive
right to such invented words as
escalator, listerine, vaseline, tabloid, mulsified, aspirin, and
kodak, not merely by abandonment but through no fault of his
own, if the public actually appropriates the word and makes it
mean a class of articles regardless of who makes them.14
(c) Registration of Trade
Names. Registration of trade
names under state and Federal
statutes does not, in general,
bestow rights. It merely makes
clear the proof of the facts on
which rights are based, and it
gives notice to the world of these
facts from the date of registration. Such notice may, however,
itself have the effect of a fact
when we ask what territory is
preempted by a particular use of
a name. In the absence of registration, it is possible to have the
same name developed simultaneously in several parts of the
country or even in several cities
in a single state. As a business
expands territorially, it becomes
necessary at times to draw
boundary lines around the territory belonging to each user.15
But after a state registration, it
is difficult to hold a new user in
another part of the state, or after a national registration, a new
user elsewhere in the nation,
entirely without blame.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

(d) Boundaries of Articles
Covered by Trade Symbols. An
even more difficult problem concerns the boundaries around articles covered by a trade symbol.
Again, the public’s view is the
test. Is the public likely to be
misled by the use of the word
“Philco,” well known in the radio
business, on safety razors?16 We
must keep in mind that this is a
business question and that the
answer is likely to change as
manufacturing and marketing
habits change. Courts have, it is
true, attempted to list classes of
articles such as foods, clothing,
and machinery, to help them in
solving this problem, but such
classes are at best approximate
and subject to change. And after they are made, the specific
questions are as fact-ridden as
ever: are chewing gum and tobacco in the same sub-class; are
silk stockings and silk underwear; are shoes and hats?
(e) Similarity of Trade Symbols. Looking at trade symbols
through the public eye forces us
to regard the offense of infringement as complete when there is
similarity though not identity. If
two boxes of cigars look enough
alike to be mistaken for each
other when not seen together, it
is idle to bring experts to testify
that the types used in the printed
matter are of different fonts, or
the colors are distributed differently or the names spelled differently. The question is not whether
an expert, setting the two boxes
down together in good light with
a ruler and magnifying glass, can
distinguish the counterfeit from
the genuine; it is, rather, whether
the transient cigar buyer in the
smoky atmosphere of the dimly
lighted shop is likely to overlook
the difference.
(f) Absence of a Technical
Trade-mark. Furthermore, the
public can be deceived in the
absence of a true technical trade-

mark or trade name, and the law
should protect it. It has long
been laid down that one cannot
make a trade name out of a descriptive or geographic term, and
there are other limitations sometimes expressed by saying, “You
cannot appropriate any part of
the dictionary and exclude others from using it.” Nor can you
appropriate a color or number or
ordinary style of package as your
own. And yet the law will not
permit another to steal your
good-will by deliberately pretending to the public that his
product is yours just because
you have neglected to perfect a
technical trademark or trade
name for yourself. Of course, you
have a more difficult case if you
must prove unfair competition
without infringement of a trade
symbol. You will have to show
longer usage in order to convince
the court that color of wrapping
or combination of ordinary descriptive and geographic words
has come to mark a product as
yours. But it can be done, and
the possibility is the basis of a
harvest of legal cases every year.

(b) Similarity of Manufacturers’ Names. The most difficult
case of all arises where one
wishes to use his own name for
a product that has previously
been introduced by an-other of
the same name. Obviously there
are three conflicting interests to
be adjusted. The prevailing interest is again that seen through
the eye of the public. One owns
his name, but he has no more
right to use it to injure the public than he has to use his crowbar for such a purpose. Injunctions are frequently granted to
prevent such misuse of one’s
own name. They should, however, be no broader than necessary to effectuate this proper
end. Thus, it may be sufficient
to demand a slight difference in
the set-up of the name, or a notice differentiating the producer
of goods or the owner of a store
from an established business
bearing the same name; or it may
be necessary to demand a complete cessation of the use of the
name. The courts will sometimes
feel their way. In the case where
a grocer named W. H. Baker lent
his name to a chocolate bar
dressed up to imitate the bar
long sold by Walter Baker & Company, the court found it necessary, because of his persistence

www.suspicions.com

in what seemed a deliberate attempt to benefit by the good-will
of the old established house, to
broaden the injunction until it
became unconditional.18 The
first comer in such matters obviously has some advantages over
later comers, because his interest happens to coincide with that
of the public.
III. LICENSING TO PREVENT
INCOMPETENCE OR
IRRESPONSIBILITY
To rid the market of incompetence, inefficiency, and irresponsibility, the chief resort of
modem law is to licensing. We
are so accustomed to the requirement of licenses for all kinds of
activity from owning a dog to
driving an automobile, and particularly for the privilege of engaging in business or following
professions, that it is hard to realize how recent a development
we are dealing with here. As late
as 1883 Mr. Justice Field of the
Supreme Court of the United
States declared that it was the
distinctive right of every American citizen to carry on the ordinary businesses of life without
let or hindrance.19 Even while he
was speaking, a development
was under way to require the licensing of physicians and lawyers, pharmacists and dentists.
Soon the humbler callings of
plumber and sewer tapper were
included. By the end of the century, hundreds of cases had been
decided in the highest courts of
the several states and in the Supreme Court of the United States,
upholding attempts to subject
practically every known industry
to the licensing power of the
state or its agencies. Many of
these licenses are perfunctory.
They are really petty privilege
taxes. Others are based on careful examinations, character studies and records. The potential
control of the market by the gov-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(3) NAMES OF PATENTED ARTICLES. The names of patented
articles are in a different legal
class. An article worthy of a
patent must be something new,
and it is entitled to a new name.
The patentee gives it that name.
When the patent expires, the
whole world has the right to
make the article and to call it by
its name. Nice questions may
arise as to whether the name of
the patented article includes the
patentee’s name. Can anyone
make a Singer Sewing Machine
and sell it under that name? Or a
Stillson wrench? Obviously it may
be wise, during the life of a
patent, to popularize not only the
official name but a trade name
or mark, as well, that can preserve for you such goodwill as
you have earned, for the time
when the patent itself expires.

(a) Expiration of Patent. A
curious instance of the combination of the principles of the
last two paragraphs is found in
the Shredded Wheat case.17 At
the expiration of the patent in
1912, presumably anyone could
have made the product and
called it Shredded Wheat. But
apparently no one did, and in the
course of fifteen years the question arose whether beginning at
scratch on the date of the expiration of the patent, the manufacturers had succeeded in putting into the words a “secondary”
meaning. The Supreme Court
recognized the possibility, but
held that it had not taken place.

17

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

18

ernment, which is inherent in the
license system, still lies ahead of
us. In the National Industrial Recovery Act, national licensing for
all businesses was prescribed as
an extreme measure.
The licensing power, however, does not in theory go so far
as to authorize a state or national
planned economy. That issue was
fought out in the case of New
State Ice Company v. Liebmann.20
The State of Oklahoma had provided that no license be given to
any ice company unless it had
first procured from designated
authorities a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
Such certificates have in the past
been required as conditions precedent to establishing new public utility enterprises, banks and
a few other types of business
charged with a public interest.
The Supreme Court held (Mr. Justice Brandeis dissenting) that in
the case of such an ordinary business as the manufacture of ice it
was not for the state to say how
many competing units were desirable. It is true, of course, that
licensing is sometimes perverted
into a’ means of keeping down
competition in an industry or
profession. Those who are “in,”
easily persuade themselves that
standards ought to be raised for
newcomers. Nevertheless, if this
is the avowed motive of licensing, it is unconstitutional. If an
officially planned market becomes a desideratum, we must
either amend the Constitution or
resort to such subterfuges as
purchasing compliance, after the
manner of the Agricultural
Adjustment Act, 21 which was
held unconstitutional on other
grounds, and of the Bituminous
Coal Act of 1937.22

1

From President Roosevelt’s
message to Congress on Mar. 29,
1933, recommending legislation
for Federal supervision of traffic in
investment securities in interstate
commerce.
2

Sec. 12 of the Uniform Sales
Act, p. 297.
3

E. A. Adler, “Monopolizing at
Common Law and under Section
Two of the Sherman Act,” 31
Harvard Law Review 246.
4

The provisions of the “Live
Poultry Code,” approved under the
Act, were held invalid because
adopted pursuant to an unconstitutional delegation of legislative
power to the President; the Act
was also held unconstitutional as
an attempt to regulate intrastate
commerce. A. L. A. Schechter
Poultry Corp. v. United States, 295
US. 495 (1935).
5

Federal Trade Commission v.
Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U.S.
441 (1922).
6

P. L No. 314, 75th Congress,
1st Sess. (Aug. 1937) Title VIII,
which amends Sec. 1 of the antitrust laws, legalizes interstate
price contracts and makes it
possible for manufacturers in the
43 states where intrastate price
contracts are valid to set up an
interstate system of price fixing.
7

In all states except Alabama,
Delaware, Missouri, Texas, and
Vermont.
8

See supra, note 4.

9

Amendment of March 21,
1938, 52 Stat. 111; U. S. Code,
Title 15, Sec. 45.
10

Amendment of June 19,
1936, 49 Stat. 1526, 1528; 15
U.S.C., Secs. 13, 13a.
11

Suspicions News Magazine

See supra, notes 6 and 7.

www.suspicions.info

12

Federal National Labor
Relations Act of 1935 (49 Stat.
449, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 151 et seq.)
was followed in 1937 by the
passage of similar legislation in
Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Utah, and Wisconsin. On
April 12, 1937, the constitutionality of the Federal act was upheld,
in five sweeping decisions, not
only as it applied to interstate
commerce, but also as it applied
to manufacturing or production
where interstate commerce is
merely affected.
13

This co-operation was held
not to show monopoly in the case
of Wm. Filene’s Sons Co. v.
Fashion Originators’ Guild of
America, 90 F. 2d 556 (1937).
14

Another example involved
the right to sole use of the word
“cellophane.” DuPont Cellophane
Co. v. Waxed Products Co., 85 F.
2d 75 (1936).
15

Courts have said that
registration under the federal
enactment projects the territoriality of the trade-mark to the
boundaries of the United States.
However, in a recent Supreme
Court decision—U. S. Printing &
Lithograph Co. v. Griggs Cooper &
Co., U. 5. 156 (1929)—it was
stated that federal registration of
a trade-mark did not extend its
territoriality to the extremities of
federal jurisdiction but that such
territoriality was still to be determined by common law principles. Cf. General Bronze Corporation v. Schmelling, 208 Wis. 565
(1932).
16

In Philadelphia Storage
Battery Co. v. Mindlin, 296 N.Y.S.
176 (1937), the manufacturer of
Philco radio sets was given
injunctive relief against the use of
its trade-mark on this noncompeting product.

Ü

17

Kellogg Co., v. National
Biscuit Co., Nov. 14, 1938.
18

Walter Baker & Co., Ltd., v.
Baker, 77 Fed. 181 (1896); Walter
Baker & Co., Ltd., v. Sanders, 80
Fed. 889 (1897); Walter Baker &
Co., Ltd., v. Baker, 89 Fed. 673
(1898); Walter Baker & Co., Ltd., v.
Baker, 87 Fed. 209 (1898); Baker
v. Slack. 130 Fed. 514 (1904). See
also L.B.P., p. 70.
19

Butchers’ Union Company
v. Crescent City Company, 111 US.
746, L.B.P. p. 40.
20

285 U.S. 262 (1932), L.B.P.,

p. 42.
21

The Agricultural Adjustment Act was held invalid because
invading reserved states’ rights, in
United States v. Butler et al, 297
US. 1 (1936).
22

In Carter v. Carter Coal Co.
et al., 298 U.S. 238 (1936), the
Bituminous Coal Conservation Act
of 1935 was held unconstitutional
on grounds avoided in the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 (P.L. No. 48,
75th Congress, 1st Sess.), which
provides for price fixing and a
code of fair competition in Interstate Commerce.
National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

19

Chapter III

Market Facilities

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

I. THE USE OF CONTRACTS

20

For the successful conduct of
business it is not enough to police the market-place and rid it
of the dangers discussed in the
last chapter. It is necessary also
to provide reasonable facilities
for its work, and among these
not the least important are facilitating laws. The greatest part
of this service is rendered by the
law of Contracts, legally recognized and enforceable agreements. Contracts are involved in
every sale of goods or lands, or
other valuables such as securities or goodwill, in every lease,
in every extension of credit, in
every act of employment, in arranging for such services as the
carriage of goods and passengers, in using the communication facilities furnished by the
mails or the telephone and telegraph companies—in fact, wherever money is used, and in some
transactions even where it is not
used. A study of contracts would
thus overlap, besides market facilities, a great many other parts
of our study, such as Credit and
Organization in business, and
some domestic and property ar-

rangements scattered through
other volumes of this work. A
general treatment of the principles of contract law is accordingly presented elsewhere (Volume VI). At this stage we are concerned, rather, with some specific contracts in common use in
business than with principles
common to all contracts.
1. Development
of the Law of Contracts
It appears, then, that the
warp and woof of modem business is contractual. It was not
always so. We can picture places
in the old world where the external appearances of life have not
changed materially since the late
Middle Ages. The man we now
see working in the field is completely enmeshed in contracts.
He is a tenant by virtue of a contract, or is employed by contract.
In turn, he employs others in the
same way. He sells his produce
by contracts and acquires what
he needs in like manner. Yet his
ancestor, who did the same kind
of work and lived a similar life,
was scarcely touched by contract
law. He was born into a status
under the feudal system, and by

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

reason of that status had certain
rights and duties in his relations
to those above him and those
associated with him or below him
in the social-economic-political
structure of his time to which we
have given the name “feudalism.”
If we ask why and how this great
change has come about, we shall
find the answer in a whole literature, the nucleus of which will be
found in a famous sentence
penned by Sir Henry Maine in
1861: “The movement of the
progressive societies has hitherto been a movement from Status to Contract.”1 Nineteenth
century writers attributed a good
deal of significance to this formula. They saw freedom in the
contract principle which said that
no man (in the absence of fault)
should be held to owe duties to
his fellow men unless he had
voluntarily undertaken them.
The status theory of duties suggested serfdom or slavery, which
had been abolished in Great Britain and its possessions earlier in
the century and was soon to disappear in America and Russia
and throughout the civilized
world.

2. Freedom of Contract
In this country the doctrine
grew to be a dogma of constitutional law, though it is not
written into the Constitution of
the United States: the dogma of
freedom of contract. Under it, at
the end of the nineteenth century and in the first years of the
twentieth century, a good many
legislative efforts to dictate the
terms of contracts were
thwarted. Not only were statutes
with reference to the labor contract thrown out unless clearly
within the police power of the
state, but price regulation and
the exclusion of unfair terms in
types of contracts that had come
to be one-sided were deemed
impossible. The only exception
of importance was that public
utilities (including carriers) were
subject to such control as to
make them duty bound not only
to contract with all members of
the public without discrimination, but to treat them all fairly,
and the authorities were beginning to interpret this to mean
that the rates and other terms
could be fixed by legislative or
properly authorized administrative action.

4. Advantages of
Standardized Contracts
As other contracts have been
standardized and still more are
being standardized in the same
way—notably, bills of lading,
warehouse receipts, sales of
goods, sales of securities, real
estate transactions, and banking—it will be worth our while to
consider the workings of the laws
to standardize insurance agreements. In the first place, the
elimination of specialized phrasing has greatly decreased litigation over the meaning of terms.
All of the standard phrases have
been judicially defined. The provisions are reasonably two-sided.
It is possible to buy insurance
quickly and, at least in ordinary
cases, without expensive expert
advice including legal advice.
Furthermore, it is possible to
cover parts of the same hazard
in different companies without
sowing a wind and reaping a
whirlwind of confusion. It is possible to master, once for all, the
essentials of each type of contract, as it was impossible to
carry in mind a clear picture of
what each individualized contract covered or failed to cover
in the past. The companies benefit almost as much as their customers. Whatever competition
they maintain, they are not
forced to weigh in the balance
non-comparable clauses. So a

www.suspicions.com

great deal of sales resistance has
disappeared. Peculiar insurance
contracts are still possible to
meet peculiar situations, but the
advantages of the standardized
policies are such that they have
come to prevail almost as generally as they would had the legislature been empowered to say
“any contract to the contrary notwithstanding,” and had it been
so minded.
5. Disadvantages of
Standardized Contracts
The advantages of standardizing contracts are not unlike
those of standardizing machinery, and the government may
play a similar part in both processes. There are, on the other
hand, the same kinds of disadvantages. The standard gauge of
machine or cut of clothing that
serves the average case best
may not serve any actual case
so well as the made-to-measure
article would. So, we shall see,
the standardized contract of
sale fits many modern situations
rather poorly. Furthermore,
standardization makes change
to meet new conditions rather
difficult. The standard gauge of
railroad tracks is said to be
based, in the last analysis, on
the strength of a horse. No matter how powerful engines can be
made in the foreseeable future,
it is difficult to see a change in
this gauge as long as trains run
on tracks. In like manner, a standardized contract for any given
purpose, whether it be insurance, banking, or the sale of
clothing, is likely to resist adjustment to the changing needs
of a dynamic society. We shall
find ample illustrations in the
most important standard contract of the market, that established in the Uniform Sales Act,
or in the common law of Sales
of the last century which it faithfully codifies.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

3. In Absence of
Agreement to Contrary
A practical compromise was
possible about the turn of the
century, when the theory of freedom of contract was at its height.
However chary a legislature had
to be in using the phrase “any
contract to the contrary notwithstanding,” it could readily say “in
the absence of any agreement or
contract to the contrary,” and lay
down the whole or the essential
part of a standardized contract
to fit any given situation. It was
in this way that the State of New
York, after an important study of
insurance companies, wrote into
its statute books a series of standard insurance policies which
were to cover all cases in this
absence of written agreements to

the contrary. Only a few provisions were put beyond the control of the parties, and these were
presumably justified under the
police power- that somewhat
vague power of the states to protect public health, safety and
morals. Many other states followed the example of New York.
Eventually, standardized insurance policies took the place of
the widely varying, somewhat
treacherous, one-sided documents that had become a scandal under the regime of “freedom
of contract.”

21

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

II. UNIFORM SALES LAW

22

1. Standardized Contract of
the Uniform Sales Act
A sale may be defined, for our
purposes, as the transfer of ownership of goods for a consideration called a “price.” So definedother definitions are also possible—it is not a contract; it is
merely a step in the performance
of a contract of sale. The contract
may call for an immediate performance or a future performance. It is also possible that,
for one reason or another, such
as delay in completing the
goods, the performance takes
place after the time agreed upon.
We are for the moment concerned with the contract rather
than with the nature of ownership and its legal consequences.
There are, or may be, other details in the performance of the
seller than a recognition of the
thing as yours and no longer his,
from a given moment. He must
at least surrender possession,
and probably also the “title” or
indicia of ownership, and he may
be bound by the contract to
package, condition, transport,
set up, or service the thing sold;
he may be bound to defend your
claim to it against all comers or
only certain comers; he may be
bound to make good certain or
all defects and pay damages for
losses resulting from defects, or
take the goods back or stand
behind them in other ways. He
may have bound himself to give
up possession without being
paid and wait a stated time for
his money. He may have agreed
to insure the goods, to make
proper arrangements on your
behalf with a carrier for their
transportation. He may have
bound himself to keep spare
parts on hand and to supply
them to you at reasonable rates;
likewise, to carry in stock
improvements and gadgets that
may be added, from time to time,
to the article sold by the manu-

facturer. He may have agreed to
take the article back under certain conditions and pay back or
allow in trade parts of the price
according to a schedule. Perhaps
he has agreed not to sell goods
of the same pattern to your competitors. It is, of course, impossible to exhaust the list of
auxiliary promises that may be
made by a seller in connection
with his promise to transfer the
title and possession of his goods.
Similar promises can be made
by the buyer in addition to the
primary undertaking to pay for
the goods. Though it is not likely
that a great many of the stipulations enumerated above exist together in any ordinary contract,
it is even more unlikely that, in
the ordinary course of business,
we shall come across a sale in
which none of them accompany
the transfer of title. Hence, it is
better, for purposes of analysis,
to follow the English version of
the Sales of Goods Act, which recognizes a Contract of Sale in every case, than the American version, which speaks of a Contract
for the Sale of Goods if the transfer of ownership is postponed,
and a Sale (with no allusion to any
contract) if the transfer of ownership is immediate.
2. Special Stipulations in
Individual Contracts of Sale
If all of the terms of every
contract of sale had to be mentioned, to say nothing of a requirement of writing, the ordinary haberdasher’s clerk could
perhaps, with the aid of a lawyer, sell a single collar or tie in a
day, and at the end of the day he
would be completely exhausted.
With standardization, he blandly
wraps up package after package
while chatting about the
weather, and lets the law dictate
the terms as to what may and
what may not be expected of the
goods. But on what principle
does the existing Sales Law make
its selection among all the pos-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

sible contracts that the parties
could conceivably make were
they minded to write special
stipulations?
To answer this question we
must bear in mind the type of
sale that was most common in
England while this law was in its
formative stage, a century ago,
rather than the type of sale with
which we are today familiar in the
large stores m urban centers.
Thus, the sale presumed is a
cash-and-carry transaction; it is,
in the absence of the proof of a
contrary intent, the task of the
buyer to pick up the goods as
they are at the seller’s place of
business or home or wherever
they may be, and carry them
away. From this presumption
arose the complicated result that
the carrier is generally to be considered the agent of the buyer in
getting the goods, rather than of
the seller in carrying them.
Hence, claims against the railroad company are normally made
by the consignee; hence, also,
the goods in the hands of the
carrier, even if they are being
sent C.O.D., are looked upon as
already in the possession of the
buyer. And since liens are based
on possession, it is too late to
enforce a lien, strictly speaking,
if the goods are in transit, even
though at that stage it is discovered that the buyer is insolvent.
For this reason there has grown
up a very technical doctrine of
stoppage in transitu, to restore
the goods to a position in which
a lien or its equivalent can once
more be asserted by the seller.
Furthermore, as there is no presumption that credit is to be extended, the seller is entitled to
hold the goods until there is a
tender of payment, in the absence of specifications to the
contrary. Out of this notion
grows the vendor’s lien.
3. Implied Warranties
(1) ABSENCE OF PROVISION
FOR THE MIDDLEMAN. Another

feature of the type of sale contemplated which reflects the past
rather than the present is the
absence of provision for the
middleman. Practically all of the
warranties recited as “implied”
assume that the only buyer contemplated is a consumer, and the
sellers are dealt with as growers
or manufacturers, whether they
be growers or manufacturers or
not.2 Warranties do not run with
the goods—that is to say, even
if branded goods are bought
from a middleman who obviously
has nothing to do with their
preparation, the buyer must look
to him for any warranties, and he
in turn may or may not have recourse to the manufacturer. The
law has, it is true, done something to meet this condition, but
not within the Sales Act nor under the heading of warranties.
The disappointed buyer may
make his claim against the negligent manufacturer, if at all, only
on the ground that it was a tort
to send poisonous or otherwise
dangerous goods out into the
world without proper warnings.

4. Rules Vesting
Title in the Buyer
The type of sale contemplated, furthermore, is the sale
of goods ready for transfer over
the counter, in which case the
sale is consummated when the
contract is made.
Hence, on the question when
title passes, after stating that it
all depends upon the contract—
which, in turn, is the intent of the
parties, to be gathered from the
words, surrounding circumstances, customs, and other relevant evidence—the Act proceeds to lay down a series of
rules to be. resorted to in extreme cases of doubt, and these
rules favor the earliest possible
vesting of title in the buyer. Thus,
the first of them assumes this
extreme and rather surprising
form: “Where there is an unconditional contract to sell specific
goods, in a deliverable state, the
property in the goods passes to
the buyer when the contract is
made, and it is immaterial
whether the time of payment, or.
the time of delivery, or both, be
postponed.” 3 Literally interpreted, this would mean that if
A sold his automobile to B on
January 1st, to be delivered and
paid for on February 1st, B might
expect a telephone call any time
during the month of January in-

www.suspicions.com

forming him that his automobile
(that is, B’s) had been stolen or
destroyed, and that he could take
whatever steps were still open to
protect his interests, but that A
would still have to be paid at the
time agreed upon. This, of
course, would seem like arrant
nonsense to B. All that the rule
and those that follow it mean is
that where the case permits of
such an interpretation at all,
early vesting of title in the purchaser is to be preferred to later
possible dates.
5. Deviations from the Sales
Act—Special Sales Agreements
In view of the inadequacy of
the simple picture of sales that
is taken from the life of a century or two centuries ago, it frequently becomes necessary to
draw up special sales agreements, or at least stipulations, to
cover phases of the sales contract for particular purposes. A
comparison of the sales form
used by a large corporation with
its order form will indicate at
once the latitude possible in
making deviations from the Sales
Act. The tendency of the sales
form is to shift every possible
risk to the buyer. The tendency
of the order form is the opposite,
and in addition it is likely to
specify warranties of a technical
type, such as the one against
patent infringement, and to deviate markedly from the assumptions of the Sales Act by covering credit terms, plans for packing and delivery, opportunities
for inspection and even devices
for self-help in case of disappointment on the part of the
buyer.4 On the other hand, it is
not unusual for both buyer and
seller to favor a deviation from
the law which refuses to excuse
a man from his contractual
obligation in the face of hardships not of his own making. A
stipulation making an order or a
promise to sell subject to strikes,
lockouts, fires or other unavoid-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(2) WARRANTIES APPLICABLE TO CONSUMER-PURCHASER. An examination of the
details of the implied warranties
will bear out the picture of (a) the
consumer-purchaser dealing
with a manufacturing dealer,
rather than (b) of a dealer-purchaser or manufacturing-purchaser. The first implied warranty
is that, where there is reliance on
the judgment of the seller that
the goods are fit for the buyer’s
purpose, there is an implied warranty that the goods are fit for
such a purpose. Another warranty is that, when one buys
goods from a dealer the goods
are of merchantable quality—and
“merchantable,” though it might
originally have meant fit to be
resold, has, since the Sales Act
was adopted, been pretty definitely interpreted to mean merely
“standard quality.”

(3) USE OF TRADE NAME
AND WARRANTY. Where goods
are bought by their patent or
other trade name there is no
warranty that they are fit for any
purpose. On the other hand,
patent or trade names are coming definitely to have secondary
meanings, as a result of the advertising that goes into them,
and it is reasonable to read into
the use of the name a warranty
that the goods have all the qualities or ingredients for which that
name has come to be an abbreviated method of statement. For
this development, the Act makes
no provision.

23

able causes for delay or non-performance is not unusual.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

III. SPECIALLY REGULATED
CONTRACTS

24

Although current law regards
most of the other services rendered in business as fitting into
the frame of contract, it has become necessary to recognize and
regulate certain peculiar features
of these relations, so that we may
again look upon many of them
as they were looked upon in
Black-stone’s day when they were
more standardized. Of course,
the details of the standardization
of the twentieth century differ
from those of the eighteenth.
Thus, it is possible to view the
duties of the carrier both of persons and of goods, the duties of
the insurance company and certain public utilities, of banks and
trust companies, commodity and
security exchanges, public warehousemen and many others engaged in dealing with the public, as dictated only in part by
contract and in large measure by
rules of law, some of which are
set down in the absence of any
contract to the contrary, and others, “any contract to the contrary
notwithstanding.” Even where it
is legally possible to deviate, it
may be difficult if not impossible
in practice to substitute one’s
own terminology: hence such
rules are, in effect, a return to
status. We may select, from this
list of special services, two—that
of the insurer and that of the
public utility—to illustrate
phases of their development pertinent to the study of other typical business services.
1. Substantive Law of
Insurance
The essence of an insurance
contract is an agreement
whereby the insurer agrees to
reimburse the insured for a loss.
The insurer may, of course, be a

group of persons including the
insured, and the total significance of the contract may be to
spread the loss over the whole
group instead of leaving it on the
shoulders of the individual upon
whom it falls. On the other hand,
the insurer may be a group of
underwriters or a corporation
that entered into the business on
a purely commercial basis. By
carefully calculating the probabilities of loss over a widespread field, the insurer can reimburse itself through the collection of a premium which is a
small percentage of the risk covered in any particular case. These
terms apply pretty clearly to
marine insurance, in which the
whole plan probably originated.
They are almost equally applicable to fire, accident, theft, tornado and even credit insurance.
Some stretching may be necessary in order to make them apply to life insurance, for life insurance has two phases: though
the time of death is uncertain,
its eventual occurrence is certain.
Hence, life insurance involves the
building up of an estate which
will eventually be paid over, as
well as the covering of the risk
of premature death before the
estate is built up. The estatebuilding side is, therefore, somewhat akin to the function of a
savings bank. Its difference is
that, instead of holding various
sums calculated individually for
each depositor, the insurance
company holds a lump sum, in
which all of its depositors have
an interest, to be partitioned
among the individuals in accordance with unforeseeable events.
(1) CONTRACTS
OVER
WEIGHTED AGAINST THE CUSTOMER. During the days of freedom of contract, insurance
companies had a tendency to
write their own lengthy and
complicated agreements giving
the customer little or no option
but to sign on the dotted line. In

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

course of time, the tendency was
to make policies so one-sided
that an insurance company
could, if it cared to, dodge or at
least question its liability. Thus,
every statement made in the
course of buying a policy was put
down as a warranty, so that if
there was any deviation from the
truth, all of the rights of the insured could be defeated. Other
special defenses, including special periods of limitation and special modes of proof of loss, were
multiplied. This tendency to
write drastic contracts weighted
against the customer is by no
means limited to the business of
insurance. It has occurred in the
history of bills of lading and
many other fundamental contracts on which important businesses are based. Eventually in
such cases the courts and the
legislatures step in to protect the
customer. In the case of the insurance companies, legislation
has produced in most of our
states a standard series of policies, and litigation has developed
a principle of interpreting all
doubtful phrases most strictly
against the insurance company.
(2) WEEDING OUT OF IRRESPONSIBLE INSURANCE COMPANIES. Another phase of public
interest in the insurance company has as its objective the
weeding out of irresponsible
companies and the prevention of
practices likely to impair solvency. Under the laws of most
states, insurance commissioners
are appointed who exercise a
broad discretion in the matter of
granting licenses to engage in
the business of insurance. Many
of these laws are supplemented
by the requirement of a minimum
capital and a deposit of securities with state officials for the
protection of interests of citizens. Furthermore, there is exercised control over the investment policy of insurance companies. Constant inspection is pro-

vided for, and liquidation by a
public officer is compulsory
where an insurance company has
failed to maintain the margin of
safety required by law.

(1) MAKING OF RATES. The
central interest of the state is in
rates, and a great deal of law has
grown up governing the making
of rates. Theoretically, the object
of this legislation is to give the
citizens fair rates; actually, however, the only possible basis on
which utilities have been able to
fight rates which they considered
inadequately remunerative has
been to allege in court that their
constitutional rights are jeopardized by a rate which operates
to confiscate their property without due process of law. Hence,
the eyes of the law have been

(a) Fairness of Particular
Rates. The two distinct questions
have been rather crudely related
in the procedure before commissions by using the formula of
valuation for the property devoted to the public utility, in order to find a rate base, and from
this rate base to proceed through
the mathematics of a fair return
to the answer m a rate schedule
or a particular rate. Actually there
are too many unknown quantities in this calculation from beginning to end to make it anything more than a check against
careless guessing or arbitrariness. It is quite possible, for example, that the value of a plant
has no direct relationship to the
value of the service that it renders. A cheap taxicab might give
the same service on a particular
occasion as a more expensive
one. In either case it may be
worth fifty cents to be carried
from the hotel to the station.
(b) Remuneration to the Investors. Furthermore, there may
be a socially desirable rate which
does not pay or which overpays
the investor. Thus, there may be
very good reasons why New York
City should want to hold subway
fares down to five cents, and
those reasons may be so potent
that it may be wise to have the
citizens make up deficits out of
taxes. The assumption that the
rate which gives a normal return
to investors is at the same time
both a socially desirable rate and
a rate that gauges the actual
value of the service, is a wholly
gratuitous assumption.
(2) FACTORS WHICH CONSTITUTE A PROPER RATE BASE.
Nevertheless, a vast part of pub-

www.suspicions.com

lic utility law is devoted to refinements of the question: what constitutes a proper rate base. Is it
original cost modified by depreciation, appreciation, depletion,
obsolescence and such accounting considerations? Is it the
present cost of reproduction,
modified by this and similar considerations? Is it the prudent and
defensible portion of actual investment that we should start
with? Is it present valuation arrived at by appraisal independently of all these elements?
Should earning capacity be taken
into consideration? Is goodwill in
any sense a possession of the
investors in the utility? How shall
franchises be valued? Though
there is much technical learning
put forward on all of these questions, most of it is rendered
nugatory in effect by a very
simple device on the part of commissions: whenever the finding
of a commission is set aside because of its failure to take any
one of these elements into consideration, it proceeds thereafter
to make a point of listening to
that type of evidence and proclaiming that it does take that
element into consideration. An
award of a commission which
proclaims that it has taken everything into consideration is, if
at all within the range of reason,
proof against court attack.

1

”Ancient Law,” p. 168-170.

2

Uniform Sales Act, Secs. 1316. p. 298.
3

Sec. 19, Rule 1, p. 300.

4

L.B.P., pp. 196-198.

5

For an outstanding work on
this subject see Bonbright, James
C., “The Valuation of Property,”
New York, 1937.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

2. Public Utilities
Still, an insurance company
is not a public utility. It is not, in
general, required to do business
with anyone whom it considers
a bad risk. The public utility must
treat all comers alike. The insurance company generally requires
no franchise in the sense of a
special privilege in the use of
public property. Most of our public utilities, such as water works,
telephone and telegraph companies, gas and electric companies
and street railway companies, are
dependent on such franchises,
and, in accepting, them are
bound to assume special contractual relations with the state
or city. In fact, the public utility
has practically no freedom of
contract. The telephone company must render service to all
persons alike. The schedule of its
rates is that which is dictated or
at least approved by a commission. Its so-called contract is likewise a set of terms laid down for
all persons subject to such
commission’s approval. Hence,
the law of public utilities is very
largely the administrative law of
the several states.

turned from the question of the
fairness of particular rates to the
entirely distinct question of the
total remuneration of the persons who have invested in the
utility.

25

Chapter IV

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Security of Transactions

26

1. Insecurity of Transactions
after Completion
(1) ILLEGAL SELLING OF
ANOTHER’S PROPERTY. Business
involves so many risks, that it is
reasonable for the business man
to favor the removal of those
within the control of the law. One
of these is the insecurity of transactions after they have been completed. Legal tradition tends to
protect property rather than
transactions. The two ideals frequently clash. Thus, an unauthorized person sells the goods of
one innocent man to another.
The trickster has disappeared
with the purchase money. As
matters stand, one of two innocent persons must suffer. The
first proposition that confronts
us is that the goods still belong
to the original owner. He has
done nothing to authorize their
sale, nor has he misled the innocent buyer. Of course, if he has,
we may find refuge in another
maxim: “where one of two innocent persons must suffer, let
it be that one who has put the
fraudulent party in a position to
defraud.” But even that maxim is
a concession to the business
man’s point of view. In strict law,
the ownership of the goods has
not changed hands.

(2) CAVEAT EMPTOR. The
old rule that throws the major
risk on the buyer is a hindrance
to business. The investigation it
calls for slows up the process of
negotiating and selling. The
doubt that remains after the
most complete investigation is a
source of sales resistance. When
the adverse claimant comes out
of his hiding place, the seller in
the market, who may himself be
innocent, must make good his
customer’s loss. Caveat emptor
in this sense, the only meaning
in which it approximately reflects
the law, is not a popular doctrine
with business men. “The general
rule of the common law,” we are
told, “is that every man dealing
with another in reference to
property that other may have in
his possession, must ‘take care,’
caveat emptor. The property may
be stolen, or borrowed, or
pledged, or in the possession of
a bailee for some specific purpose, and if so, the party in possession can convey no better or
further right than he has himself.”1 The owner of a thing or of
any interest in the thing could,
according to this theory, follow
it wherever it was taken and
claim it against the holder for the
time being, regardless of the conditions under which he had got-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

ten it, regardless of the hardship
thereby inflicted. A purchaser
could acquire no greater rights
than his vendor possessed. This
dogma was put forward as a kind
of law of nature, and Latin was
invoked against those who questioned it. “Nemo plus juris ad
alienum transferre potest quam
ipse habet.”2 In fact, even after
the innocent stranger had parted
with the tainted property, the
owner could complain of the conversion and sue him in tort.3 It
was worse than the Imp in the
Bottle. Let us examine in some
detail the process by which the
law eventually destroyed the barrier to every business transaction
implied in these ancient theories.
(3) LIMITATION ON RIGHTS
AND POWERS OF OWNER OVER
INNOCENT POSSESSOR. The earliest limitations on the rights and
powers of an owner as against a
peaceful and innocent possessor
are procedural. The right of recaption (self-help) was limited to
“fresh pursuit” and eventually
lost altogether.4 The right even
to restitution through court help
has been limited by a series of
statutes of limitation. On a procedural basis, too, was worked
out a theory that served as a doctrine of accession. Common

which has its counterpart in
other systems, seems never to
have taken root in America. We
have no thieves’ market where
titles may be purified for buyers.
On the other hand, we did, more
or less unconsciously, take over
a notion that benefits sellers—
namely, that money has no earmarks.7 Likewise, we took over
another exception to the doctrine that one cannot give more
than he owns for the benefit of
tradesmen rather than buyers,
the doctrine that a wrongdoer
can give an effective lien on the
goods of another to an innkeeper.8 Surely American law
begins with no particular bias in
favor of buyers.
2. Principles
of the Law of Transactions
Five principles, however, that
have their germs in the early law,
have been allowed to develop so
as to reverse this condition since
the American Revolution:
(1) The first is negotiability
and its extensions.
(2) The second is agency and
its extensions.
(3) The third is rather a limitation of a growing principle—
that voidable titles cannot be set
aside so as to interfere with the
intervening right of innocent
strangers.
(4) The fourth is a corollary
of our public registration of
documents.
(5) The fifth is hardly a principle—it is the tendency to create a strong or irrebuttable presumption of the regularity of acts
in the ordinary course of business, and perhaps an opposite
presumption as to acts inconsistent with business usage.
Let us examine briefly the
bearing of each of these on the
position of a buyer in modern
business:
(1) NEGOTIABILITY OF INSTRUMENTS AND ITS EXTENSIONS. In negotiable instru-

www.suspicions.com

ments we have the extreme form
of the merchant’s rejection of the
notion that one cannot sell a
better title than he has. However
we undertake to make a reconciliation of the attitude of the law
merchant with the common
law—whether we say negotiation
cuts off equities, or that it makes
presumptions absolute, or that
it excludes personal defenses, or
that the man who voluntarily
puts such a document into circulation impliedly consents to
this or that—the simple fact is
that the law of negotiable instruments provides that a man can
sell a better title than he has. We
are too apt to overlook the revolutionary nature of this innovation when we try to explain the
resistance to the introduction
and extension of the doctrine in
England until Mansfield’s day. On
the other hand, we are likely to
misunderstand the “obstinacy” of
the merchants of Lombard Street
which finally triumphed. As a
practical matter, a foreign document which could be assigned
only subject to all the facts of the
case and thus could not be taken
as telling its whole story on its
face, could not be taken at all.
In recent times the principle
that a better title than a particular seller has to a negotiable instrument can be sold, has appealed to the business world to
such a degree that it has sought
to extend it to an increasing
range of transactions. It endeavored to make its corporate bonds
follow the form and come within
the principles of promissory
notes.9 It dealt with stock certificates much as it did with
bonds, and, after attempting to
make them as nearly negotiable
as possible by what it printed on
them, succeeded eventually in
having legislation passed in
many jurisdictions to make them
actually negotiable.10 More important, however, for our present
purpose is the legislation making documents of title, ware-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

sense requires the concession
that a thing may, for legal purposes, be deemed to have been
destroyed when it has been
hopelessly imbedded into something else or converted into another substance.5 Hard as that
line is to draw, once it is drawn
the legal consequences of destruction may be visited on the
man guilty of making the destructive accession, but the
goods may not be reclaimed from
him nor followed into the hands
of a purchaser from him. A few
other situations arose in odd
places in the law in which a man
could buy goods and resist any
claim on the part of a former
owner who had not consented to
their sale—as when a new title
was created by a judicial sale in
rem, a forfeiture, bankruptcy,
marriage, intestacy, or where the
law for very good reasons empowered an officer or appointee
to act instead of an owner for the
conveyance of that owner’s title.
In none of these situations was
there any thought of serving the
need of modern business of making transactions stand even as
against outraged ownership—
but by furnishing prototypes in
which the theory of ownership
yielded and transactions stood,
they became extremely important eventually when a motive
emerged for striking a new balance between the sanctity of
ownership and the importance of
upholding transactions.
The first limitation on ownership in English law based substantially on the business considerations in favor of the security
of transactions was probably the
doctrine of market overt.6 The
idea seems to have been that if
a thing was exposed and sold in
a market overt in the ordinary
course of business, the buyer
took a clear title. The transaction
was not only good between the
parties but also binding on all
those who had any right or property in the goods sold. This law,

27

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

house receipts,11 and bills of
lading,12 when properly drawn,
negotiable. Negotiable instruments familiarized the business
world and the lawyer with several concepts such as “due
course,” “bona fide purchaser for
value without notice,” as well as
with the general idea of the security of a transaction, and these
ideas were found useful eventually in connection with the other
principles that came more directly to the aid of buyers.

28

(2) AGENCY AND ITS EXTENSIONS. Agency in its strict sense
and narrower applications is, of
course, no illustration of the extension of any special favor to
buyers. It is only when, by a liberal interpretation of apparent
scope in the light of the ordinary
course of business, an agent of
a dealer is clothed with powers
beyond his authorization, that
the buyer is benefited. The principle is not different in theory
from that which would equally
benefit sellers or other contracting parties under similar circumstances. In practice, however,
buyers are very important beneficiaries of this principle. Not
only are they entitled to assume
the ordinary powers of warranty
in the agents with whom they
deal, but also the power to sell
the things in their possession- so
far as consistent with the ordinary course of the trade.13 There
is, however, a further extension
of the principle which makes it
possible in an increasing variety
of cases to treat a person to
whose possession goods have
been entrusted as an agent to
sell by reason of “the holding
out,” though in fact he is not an
agent at all.14 This quasi-agency
has been technically built up on
the basis of estoppel. In fact, it
has come about in response to
the business need for the protection of buyers in the ordinary
course of business.

(3) TRANSFER TO INNOCENT
PURCHASER OF VOIDABLE TITLE
OR ONE HAVING INCUMBRANCE.
Tangible things are not negotiable. There are situations,
however, in which the holder of
a voidable title can transfer a
perfectly good title to an innocent purchaser for value. A title
acquired by fraud, duress, undue
influence, or under any other
condition in which a contract
may be set aside at the option of
the victim, may have to stand if
the rights of an innocent
stranger have intervened.15 It is
true that there is a difference in
degree between the situations in
which the fraudulent purchaser
of a horse gives a good title and
that in which the finder of a negotiable instrument, payable to
bearer, passes a good title.
Thus, where the transferor has
no title to the object the buyer
from him gets none.16 But the
conception of what constitutes
bona fides, what constitutes
value, what constitutes notice in
the conception of the bona fide
(or innocent) purchaser for value
without notice, tends to be taken
bodily from negotiable instruments law and read into the law
of dealings in goods by fraudulent owners. There has accordingly been a relaxation in
late years. Whereas formerly
some states disqualified the innocent purchaser who though
without actual notice might have
acquired knowledge,17 today the
tendency is to require the proof
of actual knowledge of the defect or such facts that his action
in taking the commodity
amounts to bad faith, before he
is disqualified from taking a better title than his seller had.18
Likewise, the value with which he
must part is anything that will
serve to support a simple contract as consideration,19 such as
a promise, or forbearance, or a
discharge of a debt. It need not
be present value. The law is very
liberal to the buyer under such

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

conditions—more liberal, for example, than to one who buys
from a defaulting trustee.20
Where one’s defect in title is
not due to its voidability, but simply to the existence of a condition or incumbrance, under the
common law theory it can be sold
only subject to the incumbrance.21 If the object had previously been mortgaged, the innocent purchaser has only his folly
to thank when it is taken from
him to satisfy the mortgage. The
same principle applies to a conditional sale or to any other arrangement whereby a creditor
has retained or acquired a legal
interest in the subject matter of
the sale. Unless something could
be done to protect an innocent
purchaser against such secret
incumbrances, all security of
transactions would disappear.
(4) RECORDING OF DOCUMENTS. As to real property the
same problem existed, though
the inconvenience of requiring a
long drawn-out investigation was
not felt as so prohibitive a burden because of the relatively
greater size and importance of
the transaction. Several solutions
or partial solutions of the difficulty have found their way into
our statute books, most of which
involve a public notice, filing, or
record. If such public notice, filing, or record is neglected, the
law declares the transaction void,
or at least inoperative as to
strangers. There is considerable
diversity in recording laws as to
the strangers benefited by their
violations—whether they must
be purchasers and if so whether
judgment creditors are to be considered purchasers, whether they
must be ignorant of the prior
transaction, and so on. A difference between real estate and
personal property was discovered early in the development of
the laws of public notice. There
was no difficulty as to where the
record should be made for real

(5) PRESUMPTION OF REGULARITY OF ACTS IN BUSINESS.
The old law used to expect a
great deal from the man on the
street. He was not only expected
to be circumspect, to examine
the title and quality of everything
he bought, but he was expected
to know a good deal about the
corporations with which he dealt.
He was supposed to make sure
that they existed according to
law, that they had the power to
do that which they undertook,
and that the officers through
whom they acted were the duly
constituted officers. A bank dealing with a corporation can and
does demand evidence for its
records of all these things. The
ordinary customer of the corporation does not and cannot. In
the early days of the use of the
corporation in private business
there was a possibility at one
time that the doctrine of ultra
vires would be so applied as to
hamper the usefulness of the
corporate form in business. But
gradually the whole doctrine began to fade out of the picture. A
legal necessity for a technical
investigation at the threshold of
each of the hundreds of contracts made in a modem business day is an intolerable burden.

1

First Nat. Bank of Macon v.
Nelson & Co., 38 Ga. 391, 398
(1868).
2

Dig.. L., 17, 54.

3

Swim v. Wilson, 90 Cal. 126
(1891); Sharp v. Parks, 48 Ill. 511
(1868); Robinson v. Skipworth, 23
Ind. 311 (1864); Everett v. Coffin,
6 Wend. 603 (N. Y. 1831);
Bancroft-Whitney Co. v. McHugh,
166 Cal. 140 (1913).
4

I Blackstone’s “Commentaries” 297.
5

Blackstone founds accession
on the right of occupancy. Traditionally, since Bracton, the doctrine in Anglo-American law has
been supposed to have been
taken from Roman law (bk. 2, cc. 2
and 3). See Pulcifer v. Page, 32 Me.
404 (1851). The test of relative
values, however, which has been
widely applied in this country,
differs quite radically from the test
of change of species of the Roman
law, and the injection of a distinction against a willful trespasser
goes to distinguish the AngloAmerican doctrine of accession
from that of the Romans.
6

2 Co. Inst. 713: “.... the
Common Law did hold it for a
point of great policy, and
behovefull for the Commonwealth, that Fairs and Markets
overt should be replenished, and
well furnished with all manner of
commodities, vendible in Fairs and
Markets, for the necessary
sustentation and use of the
people. And to that end the
Common Law did ordain (to
encourage men thereunto) that all
sales and contracts of any thing
vendible in Fairs or Markets overt,
should not be good only between
the parties, but should bind those
that right had thereunto. But this
rule hath many exceptions.”
7

This doctrine is, of course,
subject to numerous reservations.

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

estate, as the land could never
be moved out of the county. But
suppose a public notice was effected as to a chattel mortgage
on a piano in Buffalo, New York,
and that piano was wrongfully
sold while the mortgage was
unsatisfied, in Cleveland, Ohio,
to an innocent purchaser. In such
a case it was held that the mortgagee had done all that the law
required him to do and that the
doctrine of caveat emptor would
apply. 22 In other words, the
buyer is not so effectively protected in the case of personal
property as he is in the case of
real estate, though the devices
adopted for his protection are
similar. This is particularly noticeable in the case of automobiles. They are very commonly
incumbered with chattel mortgages or conditional sales, and
yet they are so easily moved from
county to county and state to
state that the chattel mortgage
list in some remote county is certainly no protection to a prospective buyer. Consequently, we
hear. suggestions as to national
recording for automobile encumbrances, or checks on the transfer of automobiles through the
official issuing of licenses, and
even the requirements of formalities and public notice subject to
penalties, in connection with every sale of a car. The problem is
not solved, but it seems to be
taken for granted that a simple
return to caveat emptor is not a
satisfactory solution. We may
have to put the buyer to some
trouble in the examination of
records, and we may have to
leave him subject to some
chance, but we take it for granted
that the law should be relied on
to devise some means for making the buyer of personal property as well as real estate, of used
articles as well as new ones, reasonably safe against incumbrances.

29

Where money can be described
and identified as a specific chattel
it is, of course, a subject of
conversion. Cases are collected in
(1911) 38 Cyc. 2015.
8

For the history of this
doctrine in America, see Waters v.
Gerard, 189 N.Y. 302, 82 N. E. 143
(1907).
9

Hibbs v. Brown, 190 N. Y.
167, 82 N. E. 1108 (1907); (1906)
19 Harvard Law Review 616.
10

Uniform Stock Transfer Act,
proposed by the Commissioners
of Uniform State Laws in 1909,
has been adopted in twenty-five
states.
11

The Uniform Warehouse
Receipts Act, proposed in 1906.
has been adopted in forty-eight
states. The amendments proposed
thereto in 1922 have been
adopted in fourteen states.

12

The Uniform Bills of Lading
Act, proposed in 1909, has been
adopted in twenty-nine states.
13

Herring v. Skaggs, 73 Ala.
446 (1882).
14

There is, of course, more
than a technical distinction
between implied agency and socalled agency by estoppel. In the
latter, it is said, for example, that
the stranger must show that he
knew and relied upon the conduct
of the principal. The effect,
however, of both is identical so far
as the passing of a title without
the consent of the owner is
involved.
15

Browning v. De Ford, 178 U.
S. 196 (1900).
16

Bolles Woodenware Co. v.
United States, 106 U. 5. 432
(1882).

17

Walsh v. Stille, 2 Pars. Eq;
17 (Pa. 1842); Walbrun v. Babbitt,
83 U. S. 577 (1872); Mahoney v.
Ganno, 2 Ind. App. 107, 27 N. E.
315 (1891).
18

Cf. Negotiable Instruments
Law, Sec. 56, Uniform Sales Act,
Secs. 24, 76(2). Appendix, see p.
230, p. 304, p. 326.
19

Uniform Sales Act, Sec.
76(1), p. 326.
20

In states in which purchase
for value had previously been
defined to refer to present value
(Ohio, for example), there was, of
course, no change so far as laws
of trusteeship were concerned
effected by the new uniform acts.
Cf. Crigler v. Rouse, 209 Ky. 439,
272 S. W. 905 (1925).
21

Cf. Sondheimer v. Graeser,
172 Ill. 293, 50 N. E. 174 (1898).
22

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Kanaga v. Taylor, 7 Ohio St.
134 (1857). See 41 Harv. L. Rev.
779 (1928).

30

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

Chapter V

Business Property

2. Protection
of Business Property
The interests which the law
recognizes and protects in physi-

cal things, both movable and
immovable. are the subject of
another volume in this series.1
Subject to some limitations indicated in the last chapter, the
rules of property law that have
grown up outside of business
must suffice for business. When
we turn to the intangible values,
however, we are confronted with
some new types of property or
quasi-property for which business insistently demands and
the law reluctantly accords recognition. Of course, it makes
little difference to the business
man whether you accord the
name “property” to his goodwill,
his trade-marks, trade names,
secret formulae, advantage of
having a going concern, advantageous contract, established
labor relations and other similar
advantages, and even his nuisance values. He is very much
concerned, however, in the manner in which the law protects
such interests from subtle attacks, in the manner of his being taxed because of them, in the
question of their transferability
either in gross or in connection
with property in tangible things,
and in what facilities the law furnishes for staking out, recording,
publishing and perpetuating
such interests. To put the matter another way, the reason these
interests are treated in certain
ways is not that they are or are

www.suspicions.com

not property. On the contrary,
they become or fail to become
essentially like property because
of the way they are treated.
(1) TRADE-MARKS AND TRADE
NAMES. We have, in an-other connection, already considered the
nature of the protection accorded
true trade-marks and trade names,
and also the similar protection
against unfair competition accorded trade symbols that fall
short of the technical requirements of trade-marks and
trade names. The influence of the
property idea is seen, however, in
the different rules of damages allowed for infringement and for
unfair competition where there is
no infringement. In the case of the
American Girl Shoe2 much turned
on this question. If this name were
taken to be fanciful, a full accounting of the profits of the defendant
would have to be made, whether
he sold to new customers or to
the old customers or the plaintiff.
If, however, the term were taken
to be geographical and descriptive
the offender would be answerable
only for the loss suffered by his
competitor, the plaintiff. The difference was considerable. Fortunately for the plaintiff, the full
trade-mark included a picture of
an American girl, and for this and
other reasons the court leaned to
the conclusion that the name was
a fanciful one.

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

1. “Business Property”
Defined
When the business man lists
his “assets” for a financial statement, he is not exactly making
an inventory of his property in
the legal sense of the word. The
traditions of accounting require
him to list a combination of past
and present facts and guesses
together with some future hopes
and with adjustments based on
averages or estimated averages,
and the result of the calculation
yields a purely artificial surplus.
The practice serves some practical purposes. Linking the plant
figure to original costs and allowing depreciation on the basis of
approved averages prevents the
introduction of entirely fantastic
figures. When an expense such
as taxes has been incurred and
the amount is unknown, a guess
must be allowed for reserves. Receivables, as well as goodwill,
are, like faith, necessarily the
substance of things hoped for.
But behind this list may be discerned the elements of value, the
legal rights in which we may call
“property.” Some of these elements are in land and buildings,
some in movable tangible goods,
some in intangibles.

31

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(2) EXISTING CONTRACTS. A
man’s reasonable expectation
that strangers will not induce
breaches of his existing contracts is an intangible interest
now fully protected by law. This
rule had its humble beginnings
in the cases of interfering with
or enticing one’s servants. It
gained clarity from the famous
case of Lumley v. Gye3 in which
two London music hall owners
clashed over the attempt of one
to induce a singer to “jump” her
contract with the other. It has
since had many repercussions in
the growing law of labor relations, boycotts, and unfair competition. The rule does not insist
that the contract be formal or of
stated duration. In fact, it has
been extended to cover cases
where a contract was only in contemplation, and therefore, by
another step, to the protection
of goodwill in general.

32

(3) PROTECTION OF GOODWILL. (a) Definition of Goodwill.
Goodwill has been variously defined. To the accountant it is apt
to mean a capitalization calculated to represent the invisible
source of otherwise unexplained
surplus of earnings over the average in comparable industries.
From this point of view a business with average earnings has
no goodwill, and one that is losing money has, if anything, a
negative goodwill. But to the
business man it is quite evident
that even the business which is
losing money may have certain
intangible, invisible and
imponderable advantages that
do not show currently in the
earnings or that show in the form
of a diminution of losses. Occasionally he calls on the lawyer
to phrase such advantages in
appropriate form for purposes of
transfer. The lawyer is apt to begin with a concept of goodwill
which likens it to the beaten path
to one’s business door. In fact,
when this expression was first

used in the law books it was no
mere figure of speech. Goodwill
was associated with a specific
place. It was a kind of secondary
interest in land. Hence, there still
lingers the idea that it cannot be
sold without some interest in
land. This concept is not adequate to explain the facts of
business. The goodwill of a
professional man will follow him
from office to office, as he moves.
The owner of a “route” for hawking or milk delivery or service
may be landless. Even a local
store can move about considerably within a city without losing
its identity or its patronage. A
chain-store may have “a beaten
track,” on the basis of other
stores in the system, the moment
it opens its doors in a new neighborhood.
(b) Agreements in the Sale
of a Business or Practice. Let us
analyze what takes place when a
doctor or lawyer undertakes to
sell his “practice.” In the first
place he probably agrees to introduce his successor to his clientele, or to permit his successor to so introduce himself. He
may actually hand over his lease
and assign other useful contracts. He may deposit his
records with the new man. He
may consent to the transfer of
his telephone number. He probably will agree not to compete
directly or indirectly with his successor or to interfere with the
reasonable attempts of his successor to take his professional
place. A similar set of agreements may very easily be conceived of in connection with the
sale of a business. In fact, the law
had occasion to analyze the sale
of the goodwill of a business long
before it was able to dissociate
the idea from real estate. It had
to decide, for example, whether
a sale of goodwill implied, in the
absence of specification, an
agreement not to compete, and
it leaned quite naturally to the

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

view that no such agreement was
implied. It is, therefore, necessary in drawing agreements for
the transfer of such intangible
interests to describe fully what
each side undertakes without
relying too much on the denotation or connotation of such
words as “goodwill,” “route,”
“practice,” and their approximate
equivalents.
(c) Agreement Not to Compete. Another handicap that the
law has imposed on efforts to
traffic in goodwill grows out of
the theory that an agreement not
to compete or not to engage in
the trade or profession for which
one has been trained, is against
public policy. The older cases
followed this theory. Eventually,
escapes were found by distinguishing between those agreements unlimited in time and
space and those which were limited. An actual examination of
the decisions shows that a failure to limit time made little or
no difference so long as the
space was limited. Some odd
practices developed under this
mechanical rule, such as agreements not to compete except in
some out-of-the-way spot or
some unlikely state or country.
Finally the modern rule was
evolved: that in every case the
reasonableness of the restraint
in view of the legitimate end to
be accomplished must be the
test of validity.4
(d) Protection of Goodwill
from Agent or Employee. In contrast to the reluctance of the law
in facilitating the transfer of
goodwill and in protecting it
against onslaughts from without,
stands the alertness of the law
to protect it against attacks from
within an organization. One’s
agent owes the highest degree
of loyalty and fidelity. This duty
is interpreted as including the
renunciation of any advantage
inconsistent with the interests of

the employer; it extends beyond
the time of the termination of the
agency, for the former employee
is not free to utilize confidential
information, or other similar advantage received while in the
employ of his principal, in competition with that principal either
on his own behalf or on behalf
of a new employer. The fiduciary
quality of the relationship invites
the ready intervention of the
courts of equity. Such a court will
enjoin not only the agent or
former agent from wrongfully
utilizing his advantage, but also
those conniving with him. Injunctions have protected trade secrets and trade lists, and prevented the solicitation of customers of the former employer.5 At
times there is a difficulty raised
in deciding whether the goodwill
involved really belongs to the
agent or to his employer. Consequently we occasionally see not
only specifications in contracts
on the subject, but ingenious
efforts to direct the development
of goodwill. A bond house, for
example, in its desire to build up
a regular clientele, may adopt
rules and practices calculated to
make the customer feel that he
is the customer of the house and
not of the salesman.

(4) INTANGIBLES AS BUSINESS
ASSETS. (a) Recognition by Law.
Undoubtedly the law’s recognition of intangibles as a kind of

www.suspicions.com

property has been accelerated by
the desire of the state to make
them bear a share of the property tax load. The methods employed have varied widely. At one
time the prevailing method was
merely to list on the tax duplicate such intangibles as claims,
whether evidenced by writing or
not, whether secured by mortgage or not, whether in the
readily available form of bank
deposits or in the more entangling combinations of shares of
stock, corporate bonds, or beneficial interests in trusts or business ventures. This system was
unsatisfactory because under it
concealment was so easy and so
generally connived at that scandalously small returns came in.
Furthermore, it permitted the
total escape of other important
types of intangibles, such as
goodwill. Eventually, elaborate
schedules were worked out to
get at the intangibles of business. Massachusetts, for example, led the way with a system
for taxing corporations under
which the total net value of the
corporation minus the value of
the tangible property taxed was
looked upon as the intangible
value, to be taxed as such. The
coming of income taxes, both
state and Federal, has tended to
shift emphasis from taxes on intangibles.
(b) Situs for Taxation of Intangibles. Nevertheless, nice legal questions still arise as to the
situs for taxation of various kinds
of intangible property. The law
began its attack by relying on the
maxim mobilia sequuntur personam, a maxim originally intended to cover tangible movable
property, but eventually found
too cumbersome a fiction for its
original purpose. Hence, much
learning was devoted to such
questions as the situs of a debt
or, rather, of a claim based upon
a debt, the situs of a share of
stock, or the sit us of a bank ac-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(e) Protection from the
Middleman; Refills. The coming
of the middleman into business
has created some new problems,
which the law has not yet solved,
in the protection of the goodwill
of the manufacturer. His legal
inability to impose restraining
conditions on the power of the
middleman to sell his goods has
frequently placed his reputation
at the mercy of the careless or
unscrupulous dealer. A long debate has only recently come to
an end as to whether it hurts the
reputation of goods to use them
as loss leaders or otherwise cut
their prices. With the upholding
by the Supreme Court of the
United States of the Fair Trade

Acts of California and Illinois,6
and the adoption of similar acts
by forty-one other states and the
United States Congress,7 it is
now possible at last for the
manufacturer to control the retail sales price of his branded
goods. But he is still battling with
the middleman who finds it more
profitable to sell non-genuine
parts or refills for machines of
various kinds. Unless a very
good case is made out, such an
attempt on the part of the manufacturer looks like full line forcing, a recognized variety of unfair competition. He is waging a
losing battle with the substituter
who openly recommends substitution, especially under the impact of the price maintenance
laws. In his effort to prevent his
packages from being refilled, he
has called in not only the aid of
the inventor (with non-refillable
bottles for beverages and lubricating oil), but also of the legislator who lays down penalties on
the misuse of milk bottles, or of
the courts which once enjoined
the refilling of containers marked
Prest-o-lite with other makes of
acetylene gas8 and now insist
that the shells of Champion
Spark Plugs shall have every vestige of their original maker’s
identity sand-blasted off before
they are sold after being reconditioned.9 To get the full protection of labeling, the manufacturer announces that his product is “never sold in bulk.” When
it is sold in bulk or is rebottled
or packaged by the middleman,
trouble and recrimination of another sort arise. The courts are
called on to prevent or at least
regulate the use of the name of
a perfume-maker on what purports to be his own product in
packages and combinations that
are not his.10

33

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

34

count. The logical answer, “at the
home (or perhaps on the person)
of the owner,” though it served
as the basis of important constitutional decisions in its time,
became less and less realistic as
the indicia of such claims came
to be looked upon more and
more as things. Consider, for
example, the history of the stock
certificate. A century ago it was
apparently so unimportant that
none was generally given to the
stockholder. The evidence of his
ownership was in the books of
the company. If for any reason
he wanted a certificate, a simple
writing was given to him which
was precisely what the name indicates: a statement by the
proper official of certification to
whom it might concern that John
Doe was on a certain day the
owner of so many shares of the
capital stock of the company.
Whatever satisfaction, profit or
standing this certificate gave
John Doe, it did not enable him
to consummate a sale of his interest without applying at the
office of the company. He might
lose or destroy his certificate
without endangering his position. In fact, there is every reason to suppose he could easily
procure another, and probably
would have to get another if
proof of his ownership at a later
date became desirable. As larger
corporations developed, it became customary—it is hard to
say when—to issue a certificate
to every stockholder, and business men began to regard these
tokens as something that ought
to pass from hand to hand with
proper endorsements on sale of
the stock. They stood for the
stock. Eventually they were made
practically negotiable by statute.
Transactions could be based
upon their physical presence as
the subject matter of pledges,
exchanges, sales. The record in
the books of the company,
though still important for certain
company purposes, becomes

secondary so far as dealings between other parties are concerned. Under these circumstances it becomes easy for a
resident of New Orleans to leave
his “securities” in the hands of
an agent in New York, where they
can be produced instantaneously
as needed for every business
purpose. It would be straining
the fiction too far to say that New
York shall not tax this property
within its borders because it is
technically not there. Ultimately,
the fiction yields to the new reality. Intangibles tend to be-come
tangibles for practical purposes.
(c) Valuation of Intangibles.
In the famous Adams Express
Company case,11 Ohio was upheld in its effort to find and appraise intangibles within the
state. The total value of the express company’s business was
calculated on a reasonable basis,
then the total amount of its annual business and the portion of
the business done in Ohio was
figured out. Then by the rule of
three—rather than by appraising
the value of office furniture,
trucks, printed forms, leases and
other contracts—the value of the
company’s property in Ohio, that
is, its going concern value, was
estimated. This experiment was
the forerunner of numerous successful attempts in other states,
and a few unsuccessful ones, to
evaluate intangibles by indirect
but perfectly clear and reasonable methods.
Of course, in order to take
account of the value of intangibles for taxation or other
purposes, it is by no means imperative that we think of intangibles as separate items. The
question of value might be attacked quite as well by regarding much that we have discussed
in this chapter as a phase of the
visible tangible property before
us. The difference between the
going concern value of a business and its junk value is no

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

more striking than the difference
in value between a live horse and
a dead one; yet no appraiser or
accountant would think of writing the life of the horse down on
a separate line beneath the horse
itself. The analogy goes a step
further: it would be as impossible
to sell going concern value separately from the business as it
would be to sell the life of the
horse to one customer and the
horse to another. The analogy
would be controlling, were it not
for our accounting practices,
many of which are ordained by
law, which make it impossible to
adjust values, once entered, by
reason of such conditions as
stoppage or acceleration of processes, or accretion of goodwill
in most of the senses in which
we have applied the term, or any
turn of luck not duly labeled in
the limited vocabulary of legal
accountancy.

1

See VoL V.
Hamilton-Brown Shoe
Company v. The Wolf Brothers
Company, 240 U.S. 251 (1916).
3 2 E. & B. 216 (1853).
4 General Bronze Corp. v.
Schmeling, 208 Wis.
(1932);
L.B.P., p. 213.
5 Essex Trust Company v.
Enwright, 214 Mass. 507 (1913),
L.B.P., p. 404.
6 Dearborn Distributing Co. v.
Seagram-Distillers Corp., 299 US.
183 The Pep Boys, Manny, Moe &
Jack, of California v. Pyroil Sales
Co., Inc., 299 U.S. 198 (1936).
7 See p. 16, supra, notes 6
and 7.
8 Prest-o-Lite Co. v. Avery
Portable Lighting Co., 161 Fed.
648 (1908).
9 Champion Spark Plug Co. v.
Emener, 16 F. Supp. 816 (1936).
10 Prestonettes, Inc. v. Coty,
264 US. 359 (1924).
11 Sanford v. Poe, 165 U.S.
194 (1897).
2

Chapter VI

Credit Enforcement
Machinery
I. ORDINARY ENFORCEMENT
MACHINERY

1. Procedural Law
and Business
Every hindrance to enforcement of claims is a clog on credit;

www.suspicions.com

tracts that have some time to
run, such as lessees, employers,
advance purchasers of crops. On
the other hand, those at the opposite side of each of the transactions and situations suggested
are creditors, including, to single
out only a few, the depositors in
banks, the purchasers of insurance, the bondholders, landlords
and employees under contracts.
Obviously modern business
leaves very few of us free to follow the advice of Polonius, “Neither a borrower nor a lender be.”
2. Action in Court
The principal burden of this
credit structure must be borne,
in the last analysis, on the assumption that the creditor can,
if necessary, bring an action in
court against the defaulting
debtor and pursue his claim to
judgment and satisfaction either
by payment or through execution of the judgment by court
officers who seize and sell the
defaulter’s property. There are,
to be sure, some other aids at
the disposal of the creditor that
serve as props of the credit system. In extraordinary cases, tribunals administering criminal

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Credit, a very important part
of the modern business system,
is founded upon the enforcement
machinery of the law. Yet this
machinery has been but little influenced by modern business
ideas. Procedure is essentially
the same in our courts, whether
damages are sought or not;
whether we are concerned with
buying and selling or with matters so far from the workaday
world as the claim of a bishop
for having been ousted wrongfully from his seat; whether there
is an accusation of false advertising or of murder; whether equity is invoked to enjoin unfair
competition or to test the constitutionality of a new marriage
law. Procedure is thus not a distinctive part of Business Law. It
is, however, within the scope of
our purpose to study the impact
of procedural law as we find it
on Business.

every facilitation is an encouragement to its use. Legislation calculated to “protect” the debtor,
therefore, frequently operates as
a boomerang by preventing the
extension of credit to the prospective debtor. That we are all
at one and the same time debtors and creditors became clear
when the cheapening of the dollar was before the country as a
live issue. In general, such a process might be expected to redound to the benefit of debtors
who could wipe out their debts,
as a result, with a smaller value
(let us say in terms of food or
labor) and, accordingly, to the
detriment of creditors. Debtors
include all those who have borrowed money on their farms, all
who have bought on the installment plan, all who have run up
troublesome bills, and tenants in
arrears, to be sure; but as the
rich and powerful can borrow
more readily than the poor, by
far the greatest group of debtors are corporations with large
bond issues, the business borrower from commercial banks,
the banks themselves, insurance
companies, and prospectively all
persons at the paying end of con-

35

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

law, equity, bankruptcy law, administrative law, or association
rules may be feared more by the
debtor than an ordinary court
awarding damages for a simple
breach of contract. In still other
cases, as we shall see in the next
chapter, ingenious arrangements for the safeguarding of
credit may overshadow the ordinary legal procedure. Finally, in
petty credit transactions, the
probable willingness of the
debtor to pay rather than the
creditor’s ability to make him pay
is the basis of the extension of
credit. Consumer credit is readily
extended in cases where it is
obvious that it would not pay to
bring any action, both because
of the cost in time, money and
undesirable publicity and because liberal exemption laws
would probably render the
debtor execution-proof. Yet, after all these concessions are
made, the simple action at law
for damages for breach of contract remains the very backbone
of the credit system.

36

(1) STEPS IN PROCEDURE It
will, therefore, be worth while to
make a special examination of
some phases of this type of action here, though courts and actions at law in general are discussed more fully elsewhere in
these volumes.1 In the simplest
case, it is necessary (1) to have
the adverse party brought into
court, literally or figuratively, (2)
to have the claim and the essential facts on which it is based
stated, (3) to give the other side
an opportunity to state its side
of the case, (4) to focus the dispute in “issues,” whether of law
or fact, (5) to have a trial of the
issues, (6) to render judgment,
and (7) to enforce the judgment.
In addition to these essential elements, our legal tradition provides for one or more opportunities for judicial review in a higher
tribunal and for various processes in aid of execution in the

enforcement of a judgment. The
function of each of these steps
becomes painfully obvious in a
poorly planned arbitration proceeding, when the parties persist
in dragging in grievances that
merely tend to confuse the merits of the case being heard, and
the arbitrators are quite helpless
about excluding them because
no clear issue has been presented to them. On the other
hand, too rigid an adherence to
the “rules of the game,” as developed in the long history of
court procedure, may result in
various failures from the business man’s point of view, notably excessive costs, delays, arbitrariness, and “technicality,” by
which he means- not only excessive fussiness about trifles, but
the actual sacrifice of the merits
of the case to a rule that seems
to have lost its sense if it ever
had any.
(2) PLEADING. The history of
“pleading,” by which the lawyer
means the steps in framing an
issue, is in point. A century ago,
common law pleading had developed a fine spun system of logic
which forced parties to select
single claims on a single narrow
question squeezed out under
that system. The simplification of
pleading according to various
patterns is an outstanding
achievement of nineteenth century jurisprudence in England
and America. Most jurisdictions
today call for a clear and concise
statement of the essential facts
on which a claim is based—not
the evidence of the facts nor
mere inferences drawn from the
facts, but, so far as such distinctions of degree can be made in
practice, the operating facts
themselves. The defense is to be
stared in the same way, if it is a
fact defense, so that a jury may
pass on the truth of the allegations. If the parties agree on the
facts, for the sake of argument,
a question of law may be raised

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

for the court to decide by a “demurrer,” the legal equivalent of
the colloquial, “So what?“
In petty courts of limited jurisdiction, very informal pleadings will serve the purpose, such
as oral pleadings or so-called
“notice pleadings,” provided judicial discretion is preserved to
demand bills of particulars when
the course of justice will thereby
be aided. Liberal delays, however, should not be granted
where there is no possible element of surprise in the revelations of such a bill of particulars.
(3) THE JURY. The traditional
fact-finding tribunal of the common law courts, for both criminal and civil cases, is the jury.
The literature in praise of the jury
system is vast and venerable;
that against it, somewhat meager and recent. It is gratuitously
described as a bulwark of the
Anglo-Saxon liberties, though
the Anglo-Saxons had never
heard of it. When it was introduced in England by the Conqueror, it looked very much like
the Inquisition, with’ which it
was, in fact, historically identical
It was based on the King’s royal
prerogative to force subjects
under oath to tell him the truth,
particularly unpleasant truths
about one another. It was used
in the compilation of Doomsday
Book, the record devised to give
the King all of his feudal dues
from every manor. A century later
it reappears as the Grand Jury, a
group of citizens sworn to tell the
King all the gossip that might
lead to prosecutions. It appears
in court as a fact-finding device,
lent by the King, for a consideration, of course, some time after
the Fourth Lateran Council of the
Roman Catholic Church forbids
priests to lend their aid to
magico-religious trial by ordeal,
1215. It had nothing to do with
the feudal judgment of one’s
peers mentioned in the contemporary Magna Carta. It was not

(4) EVIDENCE. (a) Three Principles. Out of the peculiarities of
our jury system grows our law of
evidence. The voluminous works
of Greenleaf a century ago and
Wigmore of our own day, to say
nothing of Fletcher’s Encyclopedia of the Law of Evidence, supplemented by the quarrels we hear
in the court room over the exclusion of bits of evidence and the
large percentage of reversals in
higher courts on the basis of errors in the law of evidence, are
calculated to inspire the lawyer as
well as the layman with awe in

contemplation of this esoteric
system of logic. It is no wonder
that legislatures write into the
laws governing administrative tribunals and arbitrators that they
shall not be governed by technical rules of evidence. And yet the
whole system is built on only
three principles, all of which are
alluded to every time a lawyer
objects: “Incompetent, irrelevant
and immaterial.” Two of these
principles should give the layman
very little trouble. What is irrelevant is a question of logic. What
is immaterial, though remotely
relevant, is a question of common
sense. What is incompetent is a
question of law.
(b) The Principle of Competency. Hearsay, for example, may
be both relevant and material.
We rely upon it every day in the
most important affairs of life. Yet
the law keeps it from the ears of
the jury because it is not comparable, for court purposes, to testimony under oath, subject to the
great corrective of cross-examination. What makes the books on
Evidence so voluminous is the
exceptions and apparent exceptions to the hearsay rule. The
business world is interested in
many of these exceptions: the
admissibility of books of account
and other business records, the
use of public records, the functions and limitations of expert
testimony, the question as to
what words in a transaction are
part of the res gestae, what constitutes an admission against
interest, and so on. Business
men would, in general, throw the
weight of their influence in favor
of more liberal exceptions to the
hearsay rule. They never resent
the discrepancy between their
way of doing things and the
courts’ more than when challenged on the witness stand with
what sounds like the comedian’s
poser: “Were you there ?“
Some other rules under the
competency principle fare a little

www.suspicions.com

better in the opinion of the business man. The rule that calls for
the “best evidence,” such as originals instead of copies, is entirely
acceptable provided it permits
the use of the next best evidence
for what it is worth when a foundation is laid by giving a reasonable excuse for the non-appearance of the better type of evidence, and provided, further, no
nonsense is indulged in about
the first note made by a clerk
being better evidence than the
first permanent record made in
the ordinary course of business.
So there is little opposition
to the rule excluding certain
types of witnesses for reasons of
public policy: the religious confessor or the husband or wife in
certain cases. In general, modern
law does not exclude, as the
older law did, parties or other
interested persons, for fear they
will commit perjury. It listens to
them and takes their interest
into consideration in passing on
their credibility. The principle of
competency has been toned
down to meet the understandings of the layman. Yet, one
still hears too frequently from
witnesses: “Every time I began to
tell what I knew one of the lawyers objected and the judge
stopped me.”
3. Slow Legal Procedure
(1) ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES. The tradition of
our law that gives a man not only
a day in court but two or three
opportunities to be heard is
tinged, like much of our procedure, with the philosophy of a
much slower moving era than
that in which we live. There are
justifications for proceeding
slowly, deliberately, thoroughly,
in that small percentage of disputes that reach the courts, for
the outcome must serve as a
yardstick for innumerable similar transactions. Yet inequalities
arise from the power of the rich
to keep or threaten to keep a

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

even a fact-finding body for
nearly three centuries—it was
only a fact-declaring body, a
group of sworn witnesses rather
than sworn judges of fact. But it
did, in course of time, serve its
function well. It not only found
facts of the kind entrusted to it
efficiently, but bravely and independently. It always injected into
the administration of justice an
element of common sense that
frequently saved the “law in action” from the effects of the folly
of legislatures. It has served as a
training school of citizenship. On
the other hand, the system of calling in, qualifying and swearing
twelve men who know nothing
about a case and are not interested in it, in order to pass on a
question of fact, is obviously cumbersome and expensive. If the fact
is one beyond the ken of the ordinary man, if it involves business
practices, figures, modern machinery, and the choice and application of standards of due care,
ordinary prudence, proper vigilance, customary precautions,
reasonable time and reasonableness in general, doubts may be
expressed as to its fitness for its
novel tasks, however infallible it
might be in sensing where the
blame lies in a street brawl. Finally, juries have prejudices and
are not always beyond being
“reached” and “fixed,” or swayed
by resourceful lawyers.

37

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

case in court beyond the endurance of the poor, whereas the
poor man who loses a case in a
lower court is practically precluded by the expense from carrying it higher. There are many
situations in business in which
any decision is better than no decision, and a prompt rough decision is better than a meticulously
accurate one coming several
years too late. Mercantile courts
were noted for their speed in the
Middle Ages, as Coke’s amusing
attempt to explain the name of
the Pie-Powders Courts reminds
us. He says that, in these courts,
justice was dispensed as rapidly
as dust is shaken from the foot.
Incidentally, the same Lord Coke
explains our whole system of
appellate jurisdiction as traceable to the Law-Giver Moses.
However valuable the system
may be, particularly if limited to
one trial and one review in ordinary cases, it is apt to be a hindrance in the simple cases on
which the credit system is based.

38

(2) CUMBERSOME MACHINERY FOR COLLECTING JUDGMENTS. (a) Exemptions. Another
source of dissatisfaction with the
law is the cumbersomeness of
the machinery for collecting
judgments. Leniency with debtors has a good social basis. The
civilized world has passed beyond the imprisonment of unfortunate debtors pictured in the
novels of Dickens. It has, too,
recognized the importance of
preserving the self-respect of the
individual and the integrity of the
family through making some
property execution-proof. In
some places these exemptions
are so liberal that the whole
credit system must either be rebuilt on an artificial basis or
abandoned for the ordinary citizen. Of course, by hiding behind
a corporate entity, even the small
business can create additional
exemptions for itself.

(b) Bankruptcy. The Federal
Bankruptcy Law, with its recent
amendments, sets still other
practical limits to the collection
of debts. The procedural details
and other safeguards against
abuse are too technical and too
subject to change to warrant inclusion here, but the principle of
modern bankruptcy is clear: the
honest debtor who surrenders all
his property to the court for administration for the benefit of his
creditors can have his debts discharged and begin again with a
clean slate. This idea differs in
almost every detail from bankruptcy as it was understood in
the Middle Ages. The thought
then was rather to punish the
debtor than to discharge him; to
protect creditors rather than to
salvage debtors; it was allied to
criminal law rather than to the
administration of estates; it was
always involuntary, and it applied
only to traders. The recent
amendments further emphasize
the rehabilitation motive and
yield reorganization facilities
rather than bankruptcy in the
traditional sense. Yet the evolution of the new conceptions of
bankruptcy have been so gradual
and natural that it is generally
believed the courts will find
ample justification for this legislation by Congress in the Constitutional Clause that gives it
the power “to make uniform the
law of bankruptcies” throughout
the United States.
4. To Make Obligations
Secure
To escape the uncertainties
of procedure and to make obligations, particularly credit obligations, more secure, business
men have resorted to three types
of arrangements:
(1) Contractual modification
of the details of procedural law.
(2) Resort to arbitration.
(3) The special devices for
safeguarding credit, which are
the subject of the next chapter.

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

(1) CONTRACTURAL MODIFICATION OF PROCEDURAL LAW.
A generation ago courts were
denying the power of contracting
parties to interfere with the procedure of courts. They frowned
on arbitration agreements which
tended to “oust the court of its
jurisdiction.” They resisted attempts to state in advance the
amount to be paid to the injured
party in case of a breach. They
declared void any stipulation that
a particular document shall be
taken as conclusive evidence.
Business men were reminded
that they could not emancipate
themselves from the rules of evidence or the statute of frauds or
the statute of limitations which
were not of their own making nor
written for their own convenience. Nevertheless, courts
have gradually been induced to
take a different view and to make
a distinction between those
stipulations which tend to promote the general objects of court
procedure, though they do so in
a novel way, and those which
tend in a contrary direction. They
first made a distinction between
stipulations for penalties, which
they held void, and stipulations
for liquidating damages, that is,
estimating and agreeing upon
such damages in advance, which
they held valid. They have upheld
waivers of many formalities, of
summons, of trial by jury, of appeal or other review, of exemptions within limits, and of some
defenses. They have upheld authorizations in notes and even in
leases to confess judgments on
the contracts in case of defaults.
They have recognized liberally
during litigation, and more sparingly if made in advance, “stipulations” as to evidence and admissions. They have recognized
reasonable curtailments of the
period of limitations. On the
other hand, they have refused to
recognize agreements to refer
disputes to one of the parties or
his nominee. They frown on

stipulations that proof of one fact
shall carry with it a conclusive
presumption as to another. They
have refused to recognize unreasonable limitations of the period
within which an action may be
brought. And some courts have
steadfastly refused to recognize
most of the waivers referred to
above.

1

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(2) RESORT TO ARBITRATION. The legal position of arbitration has, in the period under
review, been completely
changed. The widely copied New
York (1925) statute not only
makes valid but irrevocable and
specifically enforceable agreements to arbitrate future disputes under a contract, as well
as submissions of pending disputes. These modern statutes
further permit and encourage
submission to arbitration of the
fact disputes in a case already in
court, they provide court aid for
arbitration proceedings, including the subpoenaing of witnesses, ruling on questions of
law, and the treatment of an
award properly recorded as a
judgment of the court. In general, however, these statutes are
permissive, and whether they
become widely useful or not will
depend in the first instance on
how well they are implemented
by trade associations, chambers
of commerce, and other voluntary groups, and, secondly, on
the extent to which they can cut
down the time, expense, publicity and animosity of court procedure without too great a sacrifice of the ultimate advantages
of state or nation-supported
courts.
See General Index in Volume

VI.

www.suspicions.com

Suspicions News Magazine

39

Chapter VII

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

Devices for Safeguarding
& Facilitating Credit

40

1. Fundamental Ideas in
Safeguarding Credit
Credit is older than the legal devices for credit. Consequently, from the earliest days
we find the ingenuity of the business man taxed to find ways of
making himself safe in accepting a promise to pay rather than
a payment. The pledge idea
seems to have grown among all
peoples in some such way. The
man who agreed to hand over a
cow with which he was not ready
to part, might leave his horse
instead with the understanding
that he could eventually substitute the cow. Suretyship seems
also to have grown up in this
way. A friend or relative of the
debtor was probably left in the
custody of the creditor to be “redeemed” by the fulfillment of the
obligation, whatever it might
have been, for which the law furnished no adequate means of
enforcement. The mortgage, at
least the English mortgage, is on
its face and perhaps was in its
origin, the transfer of one’s
property to the creditor with the
understanding that the property
could be redeemed by the performance of the principal obligation.

Even after the law developed
to the point where a simple
promise, made in the course of
business, could be enforced, the
many slips between the bringing of the action and the actual
collection of the debt have
caused business men to look
around for various means of
making assurance doubly sure.
They have continued in the path
blazed for them by those early
pioneers who created in various
times and places the pledge
idea, the suretyship idea, and
the mortgage idea. Thus, there
has come into being a good deal
of contractual self-help in the
matter of credit, and various legal institutions have been
wrested from their original setting to serve the purpose of
making the creditor secure.
These include, besides the
pledge, suretyship, and mortgage already mentioned, various
applications
of
agency,
leaseholds, bailments, employment, partnership, the issuance
of corporate securities, symbolic
possession, negotiable paper,
and anything else that the ingenuity of the business man can
use as the basis for feeling safe
in extending credit or, to view it

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

from the other angle, anything
that his ingenuity can devise to
induce another to become his
creditor.
Instead, therefore, of approaching the business problem
of using the law’s devices for
credit from the point of view of
the law, and studying each institution mentioned in this
hodgepodge, let us rather approach the problem of credit
from the business point of view
and refer to these institutions
only with regard to their adaptability for the purpose of safeguarding credit under various
sets of facts.
2. Credit from the Business
Point of View
From the business man’s
point of view there are two bases
of credit outside of the ordinary
legal procedure for the collection
of debts: first, personal security
and, second, real security. Both
of these terms are used in their
literal senses, that is, they refer
to the simple fact that, in making a creditor more secure, we
may resort either to reliance on
an additional person or to some
thing (res) which shall be put
under the control of the creditor.

(1) PERSONAL SECURITY.
Personal security may be added
to a debt in many ways, including guaranty of several types,
suretyship, indemnity agreements, endorsement or other
signing for accommodation of
commercial paper, and del credere agency.

(b) Suretyship. K’s proposition may be varied ever so little
in words, with rather startling
legal effects. He may authorize
the giving of the goods to U, to
be charged jointly to K and U.
This we may call suretyship—
though there is by no means
unanimity among law writers in
the use of this word, as some
appropriate it for what we have
called guaranty of payment. In
the situation we have described,
we simply have a contract with
two promisors on one side instead of one. Between these two
promisors the situation is thoroughly understood. If K pays any
part, U must indemnify him. If U
pays, the matter rests there. If
the promisee knows the nature
of their relation, he will have to
proceed with the same type of
caution as called for in the case
of guaranty. Changing the risk
or the burden of the surety without his consent will let him out.
(c) Endorsement or Other
Signing of Commercial Paper. K
can become a surety for U by
signing a promissory note along
with him.. Or he may sign the
note alone, making it payable to
U, and U may endorse it to the
creditor. In either case, U, as a
signer of the note, is absolutely
bound to pay and is not entitled
to the benefit of the conditions
enjoyed by the endorser whom
we have described as a con-

www.suspicions.com

ditional guarantor. In fact, the
creditor can get the benefit of
“two names” on a negotiable instrument, regardless of the position that the parties, for convenience, choose for their
names, subject to the requirements imposed on the creditor
by the negotiable instrument
law and the stipulations in the
document. Thus, K may appear
as one of the persons unconditionally liable (the maker of a
note or the acceptor of a bill of
exchange), or as one conditionally liable (the drawer of a bill of
exchange or the endorser of either type of instrument).
(d) Indemnity and Del Credere Agency. K may get into the
picture of U’s debt in a very different way, as an insurer of a
business man against certain
credit losses, and U may be only
one of the debtors. Such a contract is one of indemnity, and is
subject to the laws of insurance.
Again, K may be an agent selling the goods of D on credit to
a group of customers chosen
and approved by K, with the understanding that he is to be responsible for U as one of these
customers. K is then a “del credere” agent whom the law so far
distinguishes from a guarantor
as not to include him under the
Statute of Frauds as a person
agreeing to answer for the debt
of another.
All types of personal security have some of the weaknesses of the ordinary procedure at law because they are
enforced through it. Furthermore, in the interpretation of
these contracts there is a strong
tendency to give the benefit of
every doubt to the person who
presumably got no advantage
from the transaction. Thus, on
such questions as whether an
offer of guaranty called for a
notice of acceptance, whether
the completed contract called
for a notice of each action un-

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(a) Guaranty. These plans
may be illustrated simply by assuming that two men enter a
store together for the purpose
of buying goods for one of them.
Let us designate them as “K,”
standing for Known, and “U,”
standing for Unknown. K’s
credit is good, but his friend U
is the one who wants the goods.
K may, of course, say: “Give U
the goods and send me the bill.”
This transaction does not come
within any of the classes, as U
is outside of the contract altogether. But K is more likely to
say: “Give U credit. If he does not
pay, I shall.” This is a guaranty
of payment. It must be reduced
to writing and signed by K in
order to be binding under the
Statute of Frauds. Again, K may
say: “Give U credit. If you cannot collect from him, or if he
becomes insolvent, I shall pay.”
This is a guaranty of
collectibility or of solvency. It,
too, requires writing. But, obviously, in order to complete his
right of access to K, one must
do or show a great deal more
than in the case of guaranty of
payment. Guaranties may be
made conditional upon the giving of certain notices, the keeping of certain records, the exercise of diligence in various ways
and, of course, in such cases the
law insists on the fulfillment of
all conditions before it will hold
the guarantor. A simple endorsement of negotiable paper,
we shall see, carries with it such
a conditional guaranty: if demand is made on the person
primarily liable, in the right way,
at the right place, at the right

time, and he refuses to pay, and
if the requirements laid down in
the negotiable instrument law
for making a proper record and
giving notice of the facts are
complied with, the indorser will
pay. In all of these cases of guaranty, it is to be noted that there
are two contracts to pay: first,
that of the principal debtor; second, the collateral contract of
the guarantor, which must in itself satisfy all the requirements
of the laws of contract to be
complete.

41

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

42

der it, notice of every default,
and other precautions for the
safeguarding of the interests of
the guarantor, whether the contract was meant to cover a single
transaction or to run for a series of transactions, whether a
contract was a guaranty of payment or only a guaranty of solvency, all doubts are resolved in
favor of the guarantor. Such
strict care is enjoined for the
benefit of the guarantor, surety,
accommodation party, and others similarly situated, except
perhaps the paid surety company, and the defenses allowed
by courts in such cases at times
seem so unreasonable to business men that the use of personal security is limited in practice to comparatively few situations, and in most of these the
party secondarily liable is really
an interested party: for example,
a large stockholder of a corporation who endorses its paper, a contractor who stands
behind the subcontractor so as
to enable him to get his necessary materials, the seller of
goods who endorses his
customer’s trade acceptance to
his bank, the automobile dealer
who assumes a contingent liability for his customers account to
the financing company.
(2) REAL SECURITY. Real security (dependence on things)
presents an even larger variety
of frameworks for credit than
the personal arrangements already discussed. Unlike these,
which are based almost entirely
upon the contract idea, the real
security devices come from
widely scattered parts of the
law—from Real Property, Personal Property, Contracts, Corporations, Agency, Trusteeship,
Public Records, Negotiable
Documents of Title, and from
Mortgages, which latter is compacted of several of these and
with peculiarities of its own. We
shall, therefore, have to make

brief excursuses into remote
parts of substantive law in explanation of some of the common plans.
Let us first divide into three
classes the holds which a creditor may have on things belonging to the debtor: (a) possessory
holds, (b) title holds, and (c)
combinations of these with
other means of control.
(a) Possessory holds will include all situations in which the
actual physical control of the
property passes to or remains
in the creditor, even if, in addition, elements of the other
modes of control are included in
the plan. Here we may include
possessory liens, pledges of
things, the deposit of symbols
or documents of title or of documents carrying rights with them
as collateral security. Sub-varieties of each of these or special
contractual modifications of
them exist and can be added
without number. For our purposes the main features of their
commonly recurring forms will
suffice.
Possessory Liens. It was formerly said that liens exist by virtue of statute, by common law
or custom or by contract, but the
nineteenth century was so contract-minded that it reduced
practically all cases to contract,
express or implied, and sought
only the evidence of some of its
implications in statutes, common law, or custom. Furthermore, it was anciently assumed
that a claim under a lien was one
thing and a right of action in
contract was another, and that
the two would not coexist. But,
again, the all-pervasive theory of
contract prevailed, and liens are
now looked upon as secondary
supports for contracts in every
case.
The eighteenth century lawyer could enumerate the types
of persons who had liens and
say whether the liens were spe-

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

cial—that is, covering only the
goods involved in the transaction out of which the charge had
grown, or general—that is, covering newly acquired goods for
back-balances. The carrier, the
innkeeper, the repairman, the
animal trainer, and a host of others, had special liens. The wharfinger, the factor, and the packer
had general liens. The agister
lost his lien through a curious
mistake. The first printed case
on the subject was one of contract, and, therefore, the agister in that case had no lien. Two
centuries later, the courts had
forgotten the learning necessary
to explain that reasoning, and
it was dogmatically said that the
agister had no lien at common
law. This rule made generalization difficult, but finally the text
writers rose to the occasion and
laid it down thus: whoever adds
to the value of the thing entrusted to his care has the right
to hold it until he is paid for his
services. As to general liens,
they said: whoever necessarily
parts with goods in the course
of giving the service for which
they were entrusted to his care
may have a lien for his balance
on other goods of the same
owner coming into his hands.
Today we have many possessory liens created or recognized
by statute, such as the
garageman’s lien, the unpaid
seller’s lien, and more that are
expressly covered by contract,
such as landlords’ liens, stockbrokers’ liens, and, to jump to
another extreme, the analogous
stipulation laid down by a college that no degree will be
granted to a student until all
arrearages are paid.
A bare possessory lien is a
narrow, precarious right. In itself it carries no assurance of
payment unless or until the
debtor becomes sufficiently eager to get his goods back to be
moved to redeem them. The fact
that today the creditor may sue

banker and the broker allow
them to “sell out” their borrowers with or without notice, at
public or private sale, to themselves or others practically
whenever the collateral holder
becomes sufficiently alarmed to
deem such action necessary for
his own protection. They further
generally stipulate that the
thing pledged may be utilized as
security for other claims of the
pledgee against the pledgor;
that the pledgee may repledge
the collateral; that the pledgee
may, but need not, take steps
to protect the interest pledged
or permit the pledgor to take
action with reference to it when
its value is endangered by a
reorganization of the corporation issuing the security, but
that he may require the pledgor
to do so; that the pledgee shall
be free from the ordinary obligation to account to the pledgor
for any surplus realized, and
that the pledgee be free of
blame for all manner of conduct
or misconduct.
The proponents of such
drastic forms for signature have
something to say in self-defense. When security values begin to topple, quick action may
be essential not only to protect
the bank’s interest but also the
interests of the pledgor and of
the public whose money the
bank controls. Furthermore,
banks may be trusted not to use
thoughtlessly all the extreme
powers entrusted to them. Prudence dictates that they be
armed with powers for emergencies though such emergencies,
admittedly, rarely occur. In any
event, courts may be relied on
to put a reasonable interpretation on such documents confessedly drawn by one side and
signed on the dotted line by the
other. Finally, if there is a market quotation on the securities
pledged, there is no danger of
arbitrariness in the fixing of a
sales price, regardless of how

www.suspicions.com

the sale is made. In view of the
flood of complaints that reached
the courts after the stock crash
of 1929, it is impossible to say
that this reassurance is very
reassuring. Brokers’ contracts
are already the subject of study
by stock exchanges and administrative commissions, and
bankers’ agreements may well
be submitted to voluntary or
compulsory revision.
Documents of Title. Besides
securities in the sense of stocks
and bonds, other valuable papers, particularly documents of
title, serve as the basis of banking credit. Under widely prevailing statutes today not only bills
of lading and warehouse receipts may easily be made negotiable by making the goods
deliverable to one’s order, or by
otherwise following the statute,
but practically any thing may be
covered by a negotiable document of title. The Uniform Sales
Act says: “A document of title in
which it is stated that the goods
referred to therein will be delivered to the bearer, or to the order of any person named in such
document is a negotiable document of title.”1 Such documents
are particularly useful in shipping goods great distances, especially in foreign trade, where
it is possible to attach the document representing the goods to
a draft (bill of exchange) to be
delivered on payment of the
draft, or in more complicated
cases to attach papers representing Cost, Insurance and
Freight (C.I.F.), exchange, collection and interest, none of which
need be paid for by the customer until the goods are available, while the bankers who
make the necessary advances
are secured by holding the papers. Longer financing of goods
in a warehouse is possible with
such paper, which enables the
bank to substitute the drawers
in its safe for a lumber room, in
the original sense of the term,

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

on his contract leads inevitably
to some kind of procedure
whereby the lien can be utilized
to satisfy the judgment. In other
words, modern law provides differently in different jurisdictions
for some sort of foreclosure of
a possessory lien after due notice to the owner of the goods.
Generally a public sale is required and a strict accounting
is expected of the surplus
yielded by the sale over and
above the debt and the costs of
procedure. A lien of this kind is
easily lost; for example, it is forfeited if possession is given up
and does not revive on retaking
possession; it is lost if the lienholder is guilty of a conversion
of the goods, and apparently he
is guilty of a conversion if he
withholds the goods from the
owner without specifying the
lien as his reason for withholding them.
Lien law is important in a few
businesses which deal with a
constantly shifting traveling
public: carriers, innkeepers, garage-men (which take the place
of the smiths of Blackstone’s
day), and repairmen generally.
Pledges of Things; Collateral
Securities. The lien, with its
modern equipment for enforcement, closely resembles the
pledge, whether it be the pawn
in the pawnshop or the collateral security in the vaults of a
bank or brokerage house. There
is a thought-provoking difference between the evolution of
the pawnbroker’s pledge and
the bank’s. The former has been
governed and standardized for
many years by the action of the
state. The latter has developed
through rather one-sided contracts written by the banks and
brokers. Hence the pawnbroker,
in order to convert his pledge
into money, must proceed step
by step in a manner calculated
to give his clients a good deal
of consideration, whereas the
pledge agreements of the

43

such a room as that in which the
Lombards, England’s medieval
bankers, kept their pledges.

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

(b) Title Holds. All possessory liens suffer from one great
defect that greatly limits their
practical usefulness in business.
They withdraw the goods that
are used as the basis for credit
from use and to a great degree
from the channels of commerce.
Hence, when a “floor plan” of
credit is needed, that is, a plan
wherein the goods are to remain
on the floor of the dealer who is
being financed, or any plan of
consumer use while the goods
are being paid for, a title hold
must be given to the creditor,
instead of a possessory hold.
The prototype of title holds is
the real estate mortgage,
though its imitations, such as
liens on real estate, chattel
mortgages, conditional sales,
leases with privilege of purchase, trust receipts, consignment arrangements for credit
purposes, have deviated, at
times, pretty far from type. In
some cases the title is actually
transferred; in others only an incumbrance is created.

44

(c) Real Estate Mortgages.
The real estate mortgage is in
form a deed which conveys to
the creditor the property that
serves as security for credit. At
the end it recites that, if the debt
in question is paid in accordance
with an agreement, the deed
shall be null and void; otherwise,
however, it shall remain in full
force and effect. Though there
is considerable diversity in the
theory of mortgages adopted by
the several states, no Englishspeaking jurisdiction gives literal effect to this language. It
has been said rightly that no
man by the light of nature can
understand an English mortgage. The reason for the obscurity lies in the very laudable efforts of equity to mitigate the

rigor of the law by avoiding the
forfeiture which the language of
a mortgage involves. Ordinarily
the property is worth more than
the amount loaned on it, and it
would be an unfair penalty, for
failing to pay the debt on a particular day, to make the entire
property forever that of the
creditor and beyond redemption. Equity has, from an
early period, taken the view that
the true meaning of the parties
was that the property should
serve as security for the payment of the debt and nothing
else. It has, therefore, created a
special right for the delinquent
debtor, called an “equity of redemption.” This simply means
that even after default he can
come in and pay the amount he
owes plus interest and possibly
damages, and thereby redeem
his property. If he fails to do so
within a reasonable time, it is,
of course, desirable to provide
some means of cutting off the
equity of redemption—that is to
say, foreclosure. The term “foreclosure” has been used in various jurisdictions for a large variety of procedures ranging from
formal notices, followed by a
lapse of time, to public sales
with or without judicial procedure. In general, however, the
tendency of American law is to
make it unlikely that the mortgagee can make a profit out of
the forfeiture clause in a mortgage by giving effect to the
simple language of the document and converting what was
once a mortgage into a deed.
Passing of Title. The diversity of the various jurisdictions
is illustrated chiefly in the question whether the so-called condition at the end of a mortgage
is to be looked upon as a condition precedent or a condition
subsequent to the passage of
title from the borrower to the
lender. In form it looks very
much like a condition subsequent—that is to say, it looks as

Suspicions News Magazine

www.suspicions.info

if title was intended to pass to
the mortgagee immediately
upon the execution of the mortgage with the expectancy that,
in the normal course of events,
it would pass back to the mortgagor. And so most of the older
jurisdictions—the Eastern
states—seem to hold. The opposite view, which seems to prevail in the West, is that no title
passes until default or, according to some states, until foreclosure. The consequences of
this diversity of view are more
technical than substantial. Thus,
if the mortgagee is the title
holder, the mortgagor who remains in possession is pretty
clearly a tenant, and the legal
relations between the two are
viewed accordingly. If, on the
other hand, the mortgagor still
has the title, whatever he is, he
is not a tenant, and other analogies must be resorted to in
working out the relative rights
of the parties. In actual practice,
the difference is likely to be mitigated by the terms of the contract written into the mortgage
which may state rather fully the
claims that each shall have
against the other under every
imaginable set of facts—in other
words, the mortgage, like many
other legal instruments, has
gone through a development
from status to contract.
Modern law views the mortgage as an incident to the debt
which it secures, whether that
debt is evidenced by a promissory note or other type of document or merely existent on the
basis of an ordinary contract.
Consequently, the holder of the
mortgage generally has the option of bringing an action on the
debt without regard to the mortgage, or of proceeding on the
basis of the mortgage, or of doing both simultaneously. Of
course, he is entitled to only one
satisfaction of his claim. If the
mortgage property brings a surplus over and above the claim

words is likely to be different in
different jurisdictions, and the
presumptions indulged in may
differ to such an extent that the
transfer of this type of interest
must be looked upon as a very
technical branch of conveyancing.
It is, of course, possible not
merely to convey the interest
that remains in a mortgagor but
also to mortgage it—that is to
say, to put a second or third
mortgage on the property. Obviously in those jurisdictions in
which the first mortgage transfers title to the mortgagee, some
other interpretation than that of
the title theory is necessary to
explain the situation of the parties to a second mortgage. It
becomes very similar to the first
mortgage in jurisdictions not
accepting the title theory. This
difference between a first and
second mortgage has led to
some curious doctrines, such as
that of “tacking,” under which it
is possible for a first mortgagee
to acquire a third mortgage
which, by reason of his superior
position as a title holder, becomes a part of his interest in
the land, and thereby obtain priority over a stranger’s second
mortgage. There is a great tendency, however, to depart from
such technical theories under
modern statutes.
In the real estate mortgage,
as in all arrangements that
merely encumber the title of
property without affecting its
temporary possession, there is
danger that a stranger dealing
with the apparent owner of the
property in possession might
find himself in competition with
the mortgage claimant. If the
strict letter of the old law is followed in such a case, the
stranger is defeated and the
owner of the secret lien prevails.
Caveat emptor. The desire of the
business world to make indefeasible transactions entered into
in the ordinary way in good faith

www.suspicions.com

has, in this case as in others already studied, been recognized
by the law and written into the
provisions for registration. The
mortgagee is expected to put
his mortgage on record where
it will be found as an encumbrance upon the property by
anyone examining the title. If he
fails to do so his mortgage is not
rendered invalid, but it is simply dealt with as if it were
fraudulent so far as innocent
strangers are concerned. The
registration laws of the several
states differ from one another
on many important points. Thus,
some allow a short period for
registration; some give the same
effect to actual notice or constructive notice that they give to
registration in saving the secret
lien; still others make the moment of registration operate mechanically as the basis of priorities claimed under registered
documents.
(d) Chattel Mortgage. By
analogy to the real estate mortgage there has developed in
more recent times the chattel
mortgage. In some states the
analogy is very close, but generally the force of business necessity, as well as the relative
simplicity of the law of transfer
of interests in things, has led to
considerable differences both in
the formality and in the operation of chattel mortgages. Thus,
it is generally true that, instead
of registration, the comparatively inexpensive and simple
expedient of filing is sufficient.
The actual document need not
be executed with the formality
of a real estate deed, but only
with that of a bill of sale or similar document for the conveyance
of an interest in personal property. On the other hand, a chattel mortgage is expected to be
comparatively short-lived and
not a part of a permanent systematic legal record of the history of the thing; hence it is

Suspicions News Magazine

National Law Library Volume 4 Business Law

and court costs, the debtor is
entitled to an accounting. If, on
the other hand, the mortgage
property brings less than the
claim, and the action included
the entire claim, a deficiency
judgment may be given for the
balance.
Since the mortgage is merely
incidental to the debt, and since
debts, particularly those evidenced by negotiable instruments, are easily transferred
by creditors, it follows that the
law must provide in some way
for the transfer of the
mortgagee’s interest. The exact
formula in any state will depend,
in the first instance, on whether
the mortgagee is looked upon
as the holder of the title to the
property in question or not. In
any event, the tendency today
is to simplify the process of
transferring the mortgagee’s
interest, or even to look upon it
as passing, in the eyes of equity,
along with the debt where no
formal transfer has taken place.
The mortgagor’s interest is likewise transferable. Great caution
must be exercised, however,
that in transferring it one does
not unintentionally pass to the
purchaser of it an obligation personally to pay the entire debt.
That is to say, the mortgagor
may transfer his interest in the
land subject to